SACTOR: LLM-Driven Correct and Idiomatic C to Rust Translation with
Static Analysis and FFI-Based Verification
Tianyang Zhou1 , Ziyi Zhang2 , Haowen Lin1 , Somesh Jha2,3 ,
Mihai Christodorescu3 , Kirill Levchenko1 , Varun Chandrasekaran1
1

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, 2 University of Wisconsin–Madison, 3 Google
tz64@illinois.edu, ziyi.zhang2@wisc.edu, haowenl3@illinois.edu, jha@cs.wisc.edu,

ACL Anthology ID 2026.acl-long.28 / revision 2 / 04 Sep 2026

christodorescu@google.com, klevchen@illinois.edu, varunc@illinois.edu

Abstract
Translating software written in C to Rust
has significant benefits in improving memory
safety. However, manual translation is cumbersome, error-prone, and often produces unidiomatic code. Large language models (LLMs)
have demonstrated promise in producing idiomatic translations, but offer no correctness
guarantees. We propose SACTOR, an LLMdriven C-to-Rust translation tool that employs a
two-step process: an initial “unidiomatic” translation to preserve interface, followed by an “idiomatic” refinement to align with Rust standards. To validate correctness of our functionwise incremental translation that mixes C and
Rust, we use end-to-end testing via the foreign
function interface. We evaluate SACTOR on
200 programs from two public datasets and on
two more complex scenarios (a 50-sample subset of CRust-Bench and the libogg library),
comparing multiple LLMs. Across datasets,
SACTOR delivers high end-to-end correctness
and produces safe, idiomatic Rust with up to
7× fewer Clippy warnings; On CRust-Bench,
SACTOR achieves an average (across samples) of 85% unidiomatic and 52% idiomatic
success, and on libogg it attains full unidiomatic and up to 78% idiomatic coverage on
GPT-5.

1

Introduction

C is widely used due to its ability to directly manipulate memory and hardware (Love, 2013). However, manual memory management leads to vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows, dangling pointers, and memory leaks (Fan et al., 2020). Rust
addresses these issues by enforcing memory safety
through a strict ownership model without garbage
collection (Matsakis and Klock, 2014), and has
been adopted in projects like the Linux kernel1 and
Mozilla Firefox. Translating legacy C code into
idiomatic Rust improves safety and maintainability,
1

https://github.com/Rust-for-Linux/linux

but manual translation is error-prone, slow, and
requires expertise in both languages. Beyond typesystem benefits, recent evidence shows that the
choice of target language significantly affects the
vulnerability landscape of translated code: migrating from C to memory-safe languages like Rust can
substantially reduce vulnerability classes such as
buffer overflows (Wu et al., 2025).
Automatic tools such as C2Rust (Immunant,
2020) generate Rust by analyzing C ASTs, but
rule-based or static approaches (Zhang et al., 2023;
Immunant, 2020; Emre et al., 2021; Hong and Ryu,
2024; Ling et al., 2022) typically yield unidiomatic
code with heavy use of unsafe. Given semantic
differences between C and Rust, idiomatic translations are crucial for compiler-enforced safety, readability, and maintainability.
Large language models (LLMs) show potential
for capturing syntax and semantics (Pan et al.,
2023), but they hallucinate and often generate incorrect or unsafe code (Perry et al., 2023). In C-toRust translation, naive prompting produces unsafe
or semantically misaligned outputs. Prior work
has explored prompting strategies (Shetty et al.,
2024; Nitin et al., 2025; Shiraishi and Shinagawa,
2024) and verification methods such as fuzzing
and symbolic execution (Yang et al., 2024; Eniser
et al., 2024). While these improve correctness, they
struggle with complex programs and rarely yield idiomatic Rust. For example, Vert (Yang et al., 2024)
fails on programs with complex data structures, and
C2SaferRust (Nitin et al., 2025) still produces Rust
with numerous unsafe blocks. Crucially, many of
these pipelines translate or refine the entire program at once, limiting both error localization and
idiomatic redesign. SACTOR instead translates in
dependency order at the function level, verifying
each fragment via FFI before proceeding, which enables targeted repair and bottom-up API formation
(§ 3).
In this paper, we introduce SACTOR, a

646
Proceedings of the 64th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 646–673
July 2-7, 2026 ©2026 Association for Computational Linguistics

structure-aware, LLM-driven C-to-Rust translator
(Figure 1). SACTOR follows a two-stage pipeline:
1. C → Unidiomatic Rust: Interface-preserving
translation that may use unsafe for low-level
operations.
2. Unidiomatic → Idiomatic Rust: Behaviorallyequivalent translation that refines to Rust idioms, eliminating unsafe and migrating C API
patterns to Rust equivalents.
Static analysis of C code (pointer semantics, dependencies) guides both stages. To verify correctness,
we embed the translated Rust with the original C
via the Foreign Function Interface (FFI), enabling
end-to-end testing on both stages and accept a stage
when all end-to-end tests can pass. This decomposition separates syntax from semantics, simplifies the
LLM task, and ensures more idiomatic, memorysafe Rust2 . An example of SACTOR translation
process is in Appendix F. Prompts that used in the
pipeline are in Appendix N.
LLM orchestration. SACTOR places the LLM
inside a neuro-symbolic feedback loop. Static analysis and a machine-readable interface specification guide prompting; compiler diagnostics and
end-to-end tests provide structured feedback. In
the idiomatic verification phase, a rule-based harness generator with an LLM fallback completes
the feedback loop. This design first ensures semantic correctness in unidiomatic Rust, then refines it
into idiomatic Rust, with both stages verifiable in a
unified two-step process.
Our contributions are as follows:
• Method: An LLM-orchestrated, structureaware two-phase pipeline that separates semantic
preservation from idiomatic refinement, guided
by static analysis (§ 4)
• Verification: SACTOR verifies both unidiomatic and idiomatic translations via FFI-based
testing. During idiomatic verification, it uses
a co-produced interface specification to synthesize C/Rust harnesses with an LLM fallback for
missing patterns; compiler and test feedback are
structured into targeted prompt repairs (§ 4.3).
• Evaluation: Across two datasets (200 programs)
and five LLMs, SACTOR reaches 93% / 84%
end-to-end correctness (DeepSeek-R1) and improves idiomaticity (§ 6.2). On CRust-Bench
(50 samples), unidiomatic translation averages
85% function-level success rate across all sam2
SACTOR code is available at https://github.com/
qsdrqs/sactor and datasets are available at https://
github.com/qsdrqs/sactor-datasets

Static Analysis Tools

C2Rust AST Parser
Static Analysis Hints
Combine

Divide
Unidiomatic Rust

C Code Verification

Verification
Feedback

Feedback

Rust
Code

FFI-based E2E Verifier

Figure 1: Overview of the SACTOR methodology.

ples (82% aggregated across functions), with
32/50 samples fully translated; idiomatic success
is computed on those 32 samples and averages
52% (43% aggregated; 8/32 fully idiomatic). On
libogg (77 functions), the function-level success rate is 100% for unidiomatic and 53% and
78% for idiomatic across GPT-4o and GPT-5,
respectively (§ 6.3).
• Diagnostics: We analyze efficiency, feedback,
temperature sensitivity, and failure cases: GPT4o is the most token-efficient, compilation/testing feedback boosts weaker models by 17%, temperature has little effect, and reasoning models
like DeepSeek-R1 excel on complex bugs such
as format-string and array errors (Appendix H).

2

Background

Primer on C and Rust: C is a low-level language
that provides direct access to memory and hardware through pointers and abstracts machine-level
instructions (TIOBE, 2025). While this makes
it efficient, it suffers from memory vulnerabilities (MITRE, 2006a,b,d,c). Rust, in contrast, provides memory safety without additional performance penalty, and has the same ability to access
low-level hardware as C; it enforces strict compiletime memory safety through ownership, borrowing, and lifetimes to eliminate memory vulnerabilities (Matsakis and Klock, 2014; Jung et al., 2017).
Challenges in Code Translation: Despite its advantages, and since Rust is relatively new, many
widely used system-level programs remain in C.
It is desirable to translate such programs to Rust,
but the process is challenging due to fundamental language differences. Figure 5 in Appendix A
shows an example of a simple C program and its
Rust equivalent to illustrate the differences between
two languages in terms of memory management
and error handling. While Rust permits unsafe
blocks for C-like pointer operations, their use is

647

discouraged due to the absence of compiler guarantees and their non-idiomatic nature for further
maintenance3 .

3

Related Work

LLMs for C-to-Rust Translation: Vert (Yang
et al., 2024) combines LLM-generated candidates
with fuzz testing and symbolic execution to ensure equivalence, but this strict verification struggles with scalability and complex C features.
Flourine (Eniser et al., 2024) incorporates error
feedback and fuzzing, using data type serialization to mitigate mismatches, yet serialization issues still account for nearly half of errors. Shiraishi and Shinagawa (2024) decompose C programs into sub-tasks (e.g., macros) and translate
them with predefined Rust idioms, but evaluate
only compilation success without functional correctness. Shetty et al. (2024) employ dynamic
analysis to capture runtime behavior as translation
guidance, but coverage limits hinder generalization
across execution paths. Nitin et al. (2025) refine
C2Rust outputs with LLMs to reduce unidiomatic
constructs (unsafe, libc), but remain constrained
by C2Rust’s preprocessing, which strips comments
and directives (§ 4.2) and reduces context for idiomatic translation.
Non-LLM Approaches for C-to-Rust Translation: C2Rust (Immunant, 2020) translates by converting C ASTs into Rust ASTs and applying rulebased transformations. While syntactically correct, the results are structural translations that rely
heavily on unsafe blocks and explicit type conversions, yielding low readability. Crown (Zhang
et al., 2023) introduces static ownership tracking
to reduce pointer usage in generated Rust code.
Hong and Ryu (2024) focus on handling return
values in translation, while Ling et al. (2022) rely
on rules and heuristics. Although these methods
reduce some unsafe usage compared to C2Rust,
the resulting code remains largely unidiomatic.
Positioning of SACTOR: Many prior LLM-based
pipelines, including C2SaferRust, translate or refine the program as a whole and rely on post-hoc
LLM repair to improve code quality. Because the
repair stage operates on complete programs, it offers limited error localization and often yields only
modest idiomaticity gains; indeed, Figure 4 shows
3
Other differences include string representation, pointer usage, array handling, reference lifetimes, and error propagation.
A non-exhaustive summary appears in Appendix A.

that C2SaferRust can produce more Clippy warnings than SACTOR’s unidiomatic output alone. In
contrast, SACTOR translates code in dependency
order at the function level, verifying each fragment
via FFI-based end-to-end tests before moving to
the next. This modular, bottom-up design provides
precise fault attribution (a failing test identifies
exactly the fragment under translation), enables
incremental API formation (later functions build
on already-verified Rust interfaces), and creates a
stronger starting point for idiomatic refinement.

4

SACTOR Methodology

We propose SACTOR, an LLM-driven C-to-Rust
translation tool using a two-step translation methodology. As Rust and C differ substantially in semantics (§ 2), SACTOR augments the LLM with
static-analysis-derived “hints” that capture semantic information in the C code. At a high level,
SACTOR first uses its C Parser to split the input into fragments (types, globals, functions) and
computes a dependency order over them. It then
translates the program bottom-up: each fragment is
translated by the LLM, compiled, and linked back
into the remaining C program via FFI for validation: the project’s end-to-end tests are run on this
mixed C/Rust build, and only when all tests pass is
the translation accepted and the system proceeds to
the next fragment. If a fragment fails verification,
structured feedback (compiler errors or execution
traces) is returned to the LLM for repair, up to
a fixed attempt budget. Once all fragments have
been translated into unidiomatic Rust, the same
bottom-up, fragment-level procedure is applied for
idiomatic refinement under the same verification
harness. The four stages of this pipeline are detailed below.
4.1

Task Division

We begin by dividing the program into smaller parts
that can be processed by the LLM independently.
This enables the LLM to focus on a narrower scope
for each translation task and ensures the program
fits within its context window. This strategy is supported by studies showing that LLM performance
degrades on long-context understanding and generation tasks (Liu et al., 2024; Li et al., 2024). By
breaking the program into smaller pieces, we can
mitigate these limitations and improve performance
on each individual task. To facilitate task division
and extract relevant language information – such as

648

definitions, declarations, and dependencies – from
C code, we developed a static analysis tool called C
Parser based on libclang (a library that provides
a C compiler interface, allowing access to semantic
information of the code).
Our C Parser analyzes the input program and
splits the program into fragments consisting of a
single type, global variable, or function definition.
This step also extracts semantic dependencies between each part (e.g., a function definition depending on a prior type definition). We then process
each program fragment in dependency order: all
dependencies of a code fragment are processed before the fragment. Concretely, C Parser constructs
a directed dependency graph whose nodes are types,
global variables, and functions, and whose edges
point from each item to the items it directly depends on. We compute a translation order by repeatedly selecting items whose dependencies have
already been processed. If the dependency graph
contains a cycle, SACTOR currently treats this
as an unsupported case and terminates with an explicit error. In addition, to support real-world C
projects, SACTOR makes use of the C project
compile commands generated by the make tool and
performs preprocessing on the C source files. In
Appendix B, we provide more details on how we
preprocess source files and divide programs.
4.2 Translation
To ensure that each program fragment is translated
only after its dependencies have been processed,
we begin by translating data types, as they form
the foundational elements for functions. This is
followed by global variables and functions. We
divide the translation process into two steps.
Step 1. Unidiomatic Rust Translation: We aim to
produce interface equivalent Rust code from the
original C code, which allows the use of unsafe
blocks to do pointer manipulations and C standard library functions while keeping the same interface as original C code. For data type translation,
we leverage information from C2Rust (Immunant,
2020) to help the conversion. While C2Rust provides reliable data type translation, it struggles with
function translation due to its compiler-based approach, which omits source-level details like comments, macros, and other elements. These omissions significantly reduce the readability and usability of the generated Rust code. Thus, we use
C2Rust only for data type translation, and use an
LLM to translate global variables and functions.

For functions, we rely on our C Parser to automatically extract dependencies (e.g., function signatures, data types, and global variables) and reference the corresponding Rust code. This approach
guides the LLM to accurately translate functions
by leveraging the previously translated components
and directly reusing or invoking them as needed.
Step 2. Idiomatic Rust Translation: The goal of
this step is to refine unidiomatic Rust into idiomatic Rust by removing unsafe blocks and following Rust idioms. This stage focuses on rewriting behavioral-equivalent but low-level constructs
into type-safe abstractions while preserving behavior verified in the previous step. Handling pointers
from C code is a key challenge, as they are considered unsafe in Rust. Unsafe pointers should
be replaced with Rust types such as references,
arrays, or owned types. To address this, we use
Crown (Zhang et al., 2023) to facilitate the translation by analyzing pointer mutability, fatness (e.g.,
arrays), and ownership. This information provided
by Crown helps the LLM assign appropriate Rust
types to pointers. Owned pointers are translated
to Box, while borrowed pointers use references or
smart pointers. Crown assists in translating data
types like struct and union, which are processed
first as they are often dependencies for functions.
For function translations, Crown analyzes parameters and return pointers, while local variable pointers are inferred by the LLM. Dependencies are
extracted using our C Parser to guide accurate
function translation. The idiomatic code is produced together with an interface transformation
specification, forms the input to the verification
step in § 4.3.
4.3

Verification

To verify the equivalence between source and target
languages, prior work has relied on symbolic execution and fuzz testing, are impractical for real-world
C-to-Rust translation (details in Appendix D). We
instead validate correctness through soft equivalence: ensuring functional equivalence of the entire
program via end-to-end (E2E) tests. This avoids
the complexity of generating specific inputs or constraints for individual functions and is well-suited
for real-world programs where such E2E tests are
often available and reusable. Correctness confidence in this framework depends on the code coverage of the E2E tests: the broader the coverage,
stronger the assurance of equivalence. Importantly,
SACTOR’s fragment-level FFI-based testing re-

649

alizes a form of compositional verification (Anshumaan et al., 2025): each translated fragment
is verified independently against the full test suite
before being committed, so local guarantees accumulate into whole-program assurance without
requiring monolithic equivalence proofs.
Verifying Unidiomatic Rust Code. This is straightforward, as it is semantically equivalent to the original C code and maintains compatible function signatures and data types, which ensures a consistent
Application Binary Interface (ABI) between the
two languages and enabling direct use of the FFI
for cross-language linking. The verification process involves two main steps: First, the unidiomatic
Rust code is compiled using the Rust compiler to
check for successful compilation. Then, the original C code is recompiled with the Rust translation
linked as a shared library. This setup ensures that
when the C code calls the target function, it invokes
the Rust translation instead. To verify correctness,
E2E tests are run on the entire program, comparing
the outputs of the original C code and the unidiomatic Rust translation. If all tests pass, the target
function is considered verified.
Verifying Idiomatic Rust Code. Idiomatic Rust diverges from the original C program in both types
and function signatures, producing an ABI mismatch that prevents direct linking into the C
build. We therefore verify it via a synthesized, Ccompatible test harness together with E2E tests.
FFI-based E2E Verifier

ing fields that should be compared in self-checks. A
rule-based generator consumes the SPEC to synthesize a C-compatible harness that bridges from the
C ABI to idiomatic code and backwards. Figure 2
shows the schematic, and Table 13 summarizes
current supported patterns; Appendix L presents
a detailed exposition of the SPEC-driven harness
generation technique (rules and design choices),
and Appendix E provides a concrete example of
the generated harness. For structs, the SPEC defines bidirectional converters between the C-facing
and idiomatic layouts, validated by a lightweight
roundtrip test that checks the fields marked as comparable for consistency after conversion. When
the SPEC includes a pattern the generator does not
yet implement (e.g., aliasing/offset views or unsupported pointer kinds or types), we emit a localized
TODO and use an LLM guided by the SPEC to fill
only the missing conversions. Finally, we compile
the idiomatic crate and the generated harness, link
them into the original C build via FFI, and run the
program’s existing E2E tests; passing tests validate the idiomatic translation under the coverage
of those tests, while failures trigger the feedback
procedure in § 4.3.
Feedback Mechanism. For failures, we feed structured signals back to translation: compiler errors
guide fixes for build breaks; for E2E failures we
use the Rust procedural macro to automatically instrument the target to log salient inputs/outputs,
re-run tests, and return the traces to the translator
for refinement. Algorithm 2 in Appendix C gives
the detailed procedure.
4.4

Unidiomatic
Rust

Idiomatic
Rust
Rule
based

SPEC

LLM
driven

Verified
Idiomatic
Rust

Test harness Test harness
With TODO

Figure 2: Spec-driven harness generation and verification loop. The idiomatic translator co-produces idiomatic Rust and a machine-readable SPEC.

During idiomatic translation, SACTOR coproduces a small, machine-readable specification
(SPEC) for each function/struct. The SPEC captures, in a compact form, how C-facing values map
to idiomatic Rust, including the expected pointer
shape (slice/cstring/ref), where lengths come
from (a sibling field or a constant), and basic nullability and return conventions; it also allows mark-

Code Combination

By translating and verifying all functions and data
types, we integrate them into a unified Rust codebase. We first collect the translated Rust code from
each subtask and remove duplicate definitions and
other redundancies required only for standalone
compilation. The cleaned code is then organized
into a well-structured Rust implementation of the
original C program. Finally, we run end-to-end
tests on the combined program to verify the correctness of the final Rust output. If all tests pass,
the translation is considered successful.

5

Experimental Setup

5.1

Datasets Used

For the selection of datasets for evaluation, we
consider the following criteria:
650

• Sufficient Number: The dataset should contain
a substantial number of C programs to ensure a
robust evaluation of the approach’s performance
across a diverse set of examples.

mon style issues). By collecting the warnings
and errors generated by Rust-Clippy for the translated code, we can assess its idiomaticity: fewer
alerts indicate more idiomaticity. Previous translation works (Yang et al., 2024; Eniser et al.,
2024) have also used Rust-Clippy.

• Presence of Non-Trivial C Features: The dataset
should include C programs with advanced features such as multiple functions, structs, and
other non-trivial constructs as it enables the evaluation to assess the approach’s ability to handle
complex features of C.
• Availability of E2E Tests: The dataset should either include E2E tests or make it easy to generate
them as this is essential for accurately evaluating
the correctness of the translated code.
Based on the above criteria, we evaluate on two
widely used program suites in the translation literature: TransCoder-IR (Szafraniec et al., 2023)
and Project CodeNet (Puri et al., 2021). Complete
details for these datasets are in Appendix G. For
TransCoder-IR and CodeNet, we randomly sample
100 C programs from each (for CodeNet, among
programs with external inputs) to ensure computational feasibility while maintaining statistical significance.
To better reflect the language features of realworld C codebases and allow test reuse (§ 6.3),
we also evaluate on two targets: (i) a 50-sample
subset of CRust-Bench (Khatry et al., 2025) and
(ii) the libogg multimedia container library (Xiph,
2025). In CRust-Bench, we exclude entries outside
our pipeline’s scope (e.g., circular dependencies
or compiler-specific intrinsics). libogg is a realworld C project of about 2,000 lines of code with 77
functions involving non-trivial structs, buffers,
and pointer manipulation. Both benchmarks reuse
their upstream end-to-end tests to verify the translated code.

• Unsafe Code Fraction, inspired by Shiraishi and
Shinagawa (2024), is defined as the ratio of tokens inside unsafe code blocks or functions to
total tokens for a single program. High usage
of unsafe is considered unidiomatic, as it bypasses compiler safety checks, introduces potential memory safety issues and reduces code
readability.
• Unsafe Free Fraction indicates the percentage
of translated programs in a dataset that do not
contain any unsafe code. Since unsafe code
represents potential points where the compiler
cannot guarantee safety, this metric helps determine the fraction of results that can be achieved
without relying on unsafe code.
5.3

We evaluate 6 models across different experiments. Table 1 shows our configurations for different LLMs in evaluation. On the two datasets
(TransCoder-IR and CodeNet) we use four nonreasoning models—GPT-4o, Claude 3.5 Sonnet,
Gemini 2.0 Flash, and Llama 3.3 70B, and one
reasoning model DeepSeek-R1. For real-world
codebases, we run GPT-4o on CRust-Bench and
run both GPT-4o and GPT-5 on libogg.

5.2 Evaluation Metrics

Model

Version

Temperature

GPT-4o
Claude 3.5 Sonnet
Gemini 2.0 Flash
Llama 3.3 Instruct 70B
DeepSeek-R1
GPT-5

gpt-4o-2024-08-06
claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022
gemini-2.0-flash-exp
Llama 3.3 Instruct 70B1
DeepSeek-R1 671B2
gpt-5-2025-08-07

0
0
0
0
0
default

1

Success Rate: At each translation stage (unidiomatic or idiomatic), the fraction of programs
whose translation is produced and passes the E2E
tests. To enable the LLMs to utilize feedback from
previous failed attempts, we allow the LLM to
make up to 6 attempts for each translation process.
Idiomaticity: To evaluate the idiomaticity of the
translated code, we use three metrics:
• Lint Alert Count is measured by running RustClippy (The Rust Project Contributors), a tool
that provides lints on unidiomatic Rust (including improper use of unsafe code and other com-

LLMs Used

2

https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1

Table 1: Configurations of Different LLMs in Evaluation. All other hyperparameters (e.g., Top-P, Top-K) use
provider defaults. As GPT-5 does not support temperature setting, we use its default temperature.

6

Evaluation

Through our evaluation, we answer: (1) How successful is SACTOR in generating idiomatic Rust
code using different LLM models?; (2) How idiomatic is the Rust code produced by SACTOR

651

6.1 Success Rate Evaluation
We evaluate the success rate (as defined in § 5.2) for
the two datasets on different models. For idiomatic
translation, we also plot how many attempts are
needed.
(1) TransCoder-IR (Figure 3a): DeepSeek-R1

100
Success Rate (%)

compared to existing approaches?; and (3) How
well does SACTOR generalize to real-world C
codebases?
Our results show that: (1) DeepSeek-R1
achieves the highest success rates (93%) with
SACTOR on TransCoder-IR and also reaches the
highest success rates (84%) on Project CodeNet
(§ 6.1), while failure reasons vary between datasets
and models (Appendix H); (2) SACTOR’s idiomatic translation outperforms prior baselines on
idiomaticity and safe-code generation, producing
Rust code with fewer Clippy warnings and 100%
unsafe-free translations (§ 6.2); and (3) For realworld codebases (§ 6.3), SACTOR attains strong
unidiomatic success and moderate idiomatic success: on CRust-Bench, unidiomatic averages 85%
across 50 samples (82% aggregated across 966
functions; 32/50 fully translated) and idiomatic averages 52% across 32 samples that fully translated
into unidiomatic Rust (43% aggregated across 580
functions; 8/32 fully translated); on libogg unidiomatic reaches 100% and idiomatic spans 53%
and 78% for GPT-4o and GPT-5, respectively. Failures concentrate at ABI/type boundaries and harness synthesis (pointer/slice shape, length sources,
lifetime or mutability), with additional cases from
unsupported features and borrow/ownership pitfalls. Overall, improving the model itself alleviates
a subset of failure modes; for instance, on libogg,
GPT-5 cuts idiomatic compile-error failures from
six to one relative to GPT-4o. For a fixed model,
strengthening the framework and interface rules
also improves outcomes but remains limited when
confronted with previously unseen patterns.
We also evaluate the computational cost of SACTOR (Appendix I), the impact of the feedback
mechanism (Appendix J), and temperature settings
(Appendix K) . GPT-4o and Gemini 2.0 achieve the
best cost-performance balance, while Llama 3.3
consumes the most tokens among non-reasoning
models. DeepSeek-R1 uses 3-7 × more tokens than
others. The feedback mechanism boosts Llama
3.3’s success rate by 17%, but has little effect on
GPT-4o, suggesting it benefits lower-performing
models more. Temperature has minimal impact.

Unid. SR1
Unid. SR2
Unid. SR3

Unid. SR4
Unid. SR5
Unid. SR6

100

80

80

60

60

40

40

20

20

0

i
Clau.5de Gem.0in Lla3m.3a GPT-4oeepSeek-R1
3
2
D
LLM Models

(a) TransCoder-IR SR

0

Idiom. SR1
Idiom. SR2
Idiom. SR3

Idiom. SR4
Idiom. SR5
Idiom. SR6

i
Clau.5de Gem.0in Lla3m.3a GPT-4o eepSeek-R1
3
2
D
LLM Models

(b) CodeNet SR

Figure 3: Success rates (SR) across different LLM models for the TransCoder-IR and CodeNet datasets. SR
1-6 represent the number of attempts made to achieve a
successful translation. Unid. and Idiom. denote unidiomatic and idiomatic translation steps, respectively.

achieves the highest success rate (SR) in both unidiomatic (94%) and idiomatic (93%) steps, only 1%
drops in the idiomatic translation step, demonstrating strong consistency in code translation. GPT-4o
follows with 84% in the unidiomatic step and 80%
in the idiomatic step. Gemini 2.0 comes next with
78% and 75%, respectively. Claude 3.5 struggles in
the unidiomatic step (55%) but does not show substantial degradation when converting unidiomatic
Rust to idiomatic Rust (54%, only a 1% drop), but
it is still the worst model compared to the others.
Llama 3.3 performs well in the unidiomatic step
(76%) but drops significantly in the idiomatic step
(64%), and requiring more attempts for correctness.
(2) Project CodeNet (Figure 3b): DeepSeek-R1
again leads with 86% in the unidiomatic step and
84% in the idiomatic step, showing only a 2% drop
in the idiomatic translation step. Claude 3.5 follows closely with 86% success rate in the unidiomatic step and 83% in the idiomatic step. GPT4o performs consistently well in the unidiomatic
step (84%) but drops to 79% in the idiomatic step,
indicating a 5% drop between the two steps. Gemini 2.0 follows with 78% in the unidiomatic step
and 74% in the idiomatic step, showing consistent
performance between two datasets. Llama 3.3 still
exhibits significant drops (83% to 76%) in both
steps and finishes last in the idiomatic step.
The results demonstrates that DeepSeek-R1’s
SRs remain high and consistent–94%/93% (unidiomatic/idiomatic) on TransCoder-IR versus
86%/84% on CodeNet–while other models exhibit notable performance drops when moving to
TransCoder-IR. This suggests that models with reasoning capabilities may be better for handling com-

652

17.5

plex code logic and data manipulation.
6.2 Measuring Idiomaticity

Versatility refers to an approach’s applicability to diverse
C programs.

Lint Alert Count

12.5
10.0
7.5
5.0
2.5

.
om
Idi

SA
CT
OR

C2

Sa

SA
CT
OR

Un

id.

Ve
rt

t
fer

Ru
s

wn
Cro

Ru
s

t

0.0

C2

We compare our approach with four baselines:
C2Rust (Immunant, 2020), Crown (Zhang et al.,
2023), C2SaferRust (Nitin et al., 2025) and
Vert (Yang et al., 2024). Of these baselines, C2Rust
is the most versatile4 , supporting most C programs,
while Crown is also broad but lacks support for
some language features. C2SaferRust focuses on
refining the unsafe code produced by C2Rust, allowing it to handle a wide range of C programs. In
contrast, Vert targets a specific subset of simpler C
programs. We assess the idiomaticity of Rust code
generated by C2Rust, Crown, and C2SaferRust on
both datasets. Since Vert produced Rust code only
for TransCoder-IR, we evaluate it solely on this
dataset. All the experiments are conducted using
GPT-4o as the LLM for baselines and our approach,
with max 6 attempts per translation.
Results: Figure 4 presents the lint alert count (sum
up of Clippy warnings and errors count for a single program) across all approaches. C2Rust consistently exhibits high Clippy issues, and Crown
shows little improvement over C2Rust, indicating both struggle to generate idiomatic Rust.
C2SaferRust reduces Clippy issues, but it still retains a significant number of warnings and errors.
Notably, even the unidiomatic output of SACTOR
surpasses all of these 3. This underscores the advantage of LLMs over rule-based methods. While
Vert improves idiomaticity, SACTOR’s idiomatic
phase yields fewer Clippy issues, outperforming
some existing LLM-based approaches.
Table 2 summarizes unsafe code statistics.
Unsafe-Free indicates the percentage of programs
without unsafe code, while Avg. Unsafe represents
the average proportion of unsafe code across all
translations. C2Rust and Crown generate unsafe
code in all programs with a high average unsafe
percentage. C2SaferRust has the ability to reduce
unsafe code and able to generate unsafe-free programs in some cases (45.6% in TransCoder-IR),
but cannot sufficiently reduce the unsafe uses in
the CodeNet dataset. Vert has a higher success
rate than SACTOR but occasionally introduces unsafe code. SACTOR’s unidiomatic phase retains
C semantics, leading to a high unsafe percentage.
However, its idiomatic phase eliminates all unsafe
code, achieving a 100% Unsafe-Free rate.
4

Dataset
TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

15.0

Figure 4: Total clippy issues (warnings + errors) across
different method.
M ETHOD

DATASET

SR (%)

UF (%)

AU (%)

C2Rust

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

100
100

0
0

100
75.9

Crown

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

100
100

0
0

100
75.9

C2SaferRust

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

90
93

45.6
0

10.8
75.8

Vert

TransCoder-IR

92

95.7

1.6

SACTOR (Unid.)

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

84
84

3.6
1.1

91.7
42.7

SACTOR (Idiom.)

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

80
79

100
100

0
0

Table 2: Unsafe code statistics. UF denotes “Unsafe
Free" and AU denotes “Avg. Unsafe."

6.3

Real-world Code-bases

To evaluate SACTOR’s performance on two realworld code-bases, we run the translation process up
to three times per sample, with SACTOR attempts
to translate each function, struct and global variable
at most six attempts in each run. For libogg, we
also experiment with both GPT-4o and GPT-5 to
compare their performance.
CRust-Bench. At the function level, SACTOR
reaches a mean per-sample unidiomatic success
rate of 85.15% (788 of 966 functions, 81.57% aggregated), with 32 samples fully translated. Restricting idiomatic evaluation to these 32 samples,
the mean per-sample rate is 51.85% (249 of 580,
42.93% aggregated), and 8 samples are fully translated under the idiomatic setting. Table 3 summarizes stage-level outcomes.
Observations and failure modes. We organize failures into five main categories. (1) Interface/name
drift: Symbol casing or exact-name mismatches
(e.g., CamelCase vs. snake_case). (2) Semantic
mapping errors: Mistakes in translating C constructs to idiomatic Rust (e.g., pointer-of-pointer
vs. Vec, shape drift, lifetime or mutability issues). (3) C-specific features: Incomplete han-

653

S TAGE

S AMPLES E VAL .

P ER - SAMPLE SR ( FUNC .)

AGGREGATED SR ( FUNC .)

F ULL SR

AVG . L INT / F UNCTION

Unidi.
Idiom.

50
32†

85.15%
51.85%

788 / 966 (81.57%)
249 / 580 (42.93%)

32 / 50 (64.00%)
8 / 32 (25.00%)

2.96
0.28

Table 3: CRust-Bench function-level translation results. Success rate (SR) is averaged per-sample; † idiomatic stage
is evaluated only on samples whose unidiomatic pass fully translated all functions.
S TEP ( MODEL )

SR (%)

AVG . LINT / F UNCTION

AVG . ATTEMPT

Unid. (GPT-4o)
Idiom. (GPT-4o)

100
53

1.45
0.28

1.52
2.00

Unid. (GPT-5)
Idiom. (GPT-5)

100
78

1.45
0.23

1.04
1.25

Table 4: Evaluation of SACTOR’s function translation
on libogg. “Unid.”/“Idiom.” denotes unidiomatic/idiomatic translation. “SR” is the success rate of translating functions. “Avg. lint”/“Avg. attempt” is the average
lint alert count/average number of attempts, for functions that both LLM models succeed in translating.

dling some features like function pointers and C
variadics. (4) Borrowing and resource-model violations: Compile-time borrow-checker errors in
idiomatic Rust bodies (e.g., overlapping borrows
in updates). (5) Harness/runtime faults: Faulty
test harnesses translation (e.g. buffer mis-sizing,
out-of-bounds access). Other minor cases include
unsupported intrinsics (SIMD) and global-state
divergence (shadowed globals). Table 14 (in Appendix M.1) summarizes each sample’s outcome
and its primary cause.
Idiomaticity. Unidiomatic outputs average 50.14
Clippy alerts per sample (2.96 per function) with
a 97.86% unsafe fraction; idiomatic outputs drop
to 2.27 alerts per sample (0.28 per function) and
reach a 100% unsafe-free rate.
Libogg. The unidiomatic and idiomatic translations of all structs and global variables are successful with each LLM model. For functions, the
result is summarized in Table 4. SACTOR succeeds in all functions’ unidiomatic translations. For
idiomatic translations, SACTOR’s success rate is
53% and SACTOR takes 2.00 attempts on average to produce a correct translation with GPT-4o.
For GPT-5, the performance is significantly better
with a success rate of 78% and average number of
attempts of 1.25.
Observations and failure modes. The most significant reasons for failed idiomatic translations include: (1) failure to pass tests due to mistakes in
translating pointer manipulation and heap memory management; (2) compile errors in translated
functions, especially arising from violation of Rust
safety rules on lifetimes, borrowing and mutability;

(3) failure to generate compilable test harnesses
for data types with pointers and arrays. GPT-5
performs significantly better than GPT-4o. For example, GPT-5 only have one failure caused by a
compile error in the translated function, in contrast
to six compile error failures with GPT-4o, which
shows the progress of GPT-5 in understanding Rust
grammar and fixing compile errors. More details
can be found in Appendix M.2.
Idiomaticity. SACTOR’s unidiomatic translations
cause lint alerts largely due to the use of unsafe
code while idiomatic translations lead to very few
lint alerts, i.e., fewer than 0.3 alerts per function
on average (Table 4). With each model, the unidiomatic translations are all in unsafe code but the
idiomatic translations are all in safe code. As a result, the idiomatic translations have an avg. unsafe
fraction of 0% and unsafe-free fraction of 100%.
The unidiomatic translations are the opposite.

7

Conclusions

Translating C to Rust enhances memory safety but
remains error-prone and often unidiomatic. While
LLMs improve translation, they still lack correctness guarantees and struggle with semantic gaps.
SACTOR addresses these through a two-stage
pipeline: preserving ABI interface first, then refining to idiomatic Rust. Guided by static analysis and
validated via FFI-based testing, SACTOR achieves
high correctness and idiomaticity across multiple
benchmarks, surpassing prior tools on idiomaticity and safe-code generation. On libogg, GPT-5
further lifts idiomatic success from 53% to 78%
over GPT-4o, suggesting that SACTOR’s effectiveness will grow with LLM capability. Remaining
challenges include stronger correctness assurance,
richer C-feature coverage, and improved scalability
and efficiency (see §7).

654

Limitations

References

While SACTOR is effective in producing correct,
idiomatic Rust, several limitations remain:
• Model variance. Translation quality depends on
the underlying LLM. Stronger models meaningfully reduce failures: on libogg, GPT-5 raises
idiomatic success from 53% to 78% and cuts
compile-error failures from six to one relative to
GPT-4o (§ 6.3). Older or weaker models, however, remain less accurate and less stable.
• Unsupported C features. Complex macros, pervasive function pointers, global state, C variadics and inline assembly are only partially handled, limiting applicability to such codebases
(see § 6.3).
• Harness generation stability. The rule-based
generator with LLM fallback can still emit incomplete or brittle adapters on complex patterns
(e.g., unusual pointer shapes or length expressions), causing otherwise-correct translations to
fail verification. Hardening rules and reducing
reliance on the fallback should improve robustness and reproducibility.
• Cost and latency. Multi-stage prompting, compilation, and test loops incur non-trivial token
and time costs, which matter for large-scale migrations.
• Test coverage dependence.
Our softequivalence checks rely on existing end-to-end
tests, which cannot guarantee full semantic
equivalence (Anshumaan et al., 2025); shallow
or incomplete coverage can miss subtle semantic errors. Integrating fuzzing, test generation,
or formal verification could raise coverage and
catch corner cases.
• Static analysis precision. Current analysis
may under-specify aliasing, ownership, and
pointer shapes in challenging code, leading to
adapter/spec errors. Stronger analyses could improve mapping and reduce retries.

Divyam Anshumaan, Tej Chajed, Varun Chandrasekaran, Alvin Cheung, Sarthak Choudhary, Adwait Godbole, Somesh Jha, Nils Palumbo, Elizabeth
Polgreen, Sanjit A Seshia, and Tianyang Zhou. 2025.
Llm-based code translation needs formal compositional reasoning. (UCB/EECS-2025-174).

Acknowledgments
We thank the anonymous reviewers and the area
chair for their valuable feedback on this paper.
This material is based upon work supported by
the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
(DARPA) under Agreement No. HR00112590131.
Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.

Roberto Baldoni, Emilio Coppa, Daniele Cono D’elia,
Camil Demetrescu, and Irene Finocchi. 2018. A
survey of symbolic execution techniques. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 51(3):1–39.
P David Coward. 1988. Symbolic execution systems—a
review. Software Engineering Journal, 3(6):229–
239.
Mehmet Emre, Ryan Schroeder, Kyle Dewey, and Ben
Hardekopf. 2021. Translating c to safer rust. Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages,
5(OOPSLA):1–29.
Hasan Ferit Eniser, Hanliang Zhang, Cristina David,
Meng Wang, Maria Christakis, Brandon Paulsen,
Joey Dodds, and Daniel Kroening. 2024. Towards
translating real-world code with llms: A study of
translating to rust. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.11514.
Jiahao Fan, Yi Li, Shaohua Wang, and Tien N Nguyen.
2020. A c/c++ code vulnerability dataset with code
changes and cve summaries. In Proceedings of the
17th International Conference on Mining Software
Repositories, pages 508–512.
Jaemin Hong and Sukyoung Ryu. 2024. Don’t write, but
return: Replacing output parameters with algebraic
data types in c-to-rust translation. Proceedings of
the ACM on Programming Languages, 8(PLDI):716–
740.
Immunant. 2020. C2rust.
Ralf Jung, Jacques-Henri Jourdan, Robbert Krebbers,
and Derek Dreyer. 2017. Rustbelt: Securing the
foundations of the rust programming language. Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages,
2(POPL):1–34.
Anirudh Khatry, Robert Zhang, Jia Pan, Ziteng
Wang, Qiaochu Chen, Greg Durrett, and Isil Dillig. 2025. Crust-bench: A comprehensive benchmark for c-to-safe-rust transpilation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.15254.
James C King. 1976. Symbolic execution and program
testing. Communications of the ACM, 19(7):385–
394.
Tianle Li, Ge Zhang, Quy Duc Do, Xiang Yue,
and Wenhu Chen. 2024. Long-context llms struggle with long in-context learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.02060.
Hongliang Liang, Xiaoxiao Pei, Xiaodong Jia, Wuwei
Shen, and Jian Zhang. 2018. Fuzzing: State of the art.
IEEE Transactions on Reliability, 67(3):1199–1218.

655

Michael Ling, Yijun Yu, Haitao Wu, Yuan Wang,
James R Cordy, and Ahmed E Hassan. 2022. In
rust we trust: a transpiler from unsafe c to safer rust.
In Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 44th international
conference on software engineering: companion proceedings, pages 354–355.
Xiang Liu, Peijie Dong, Xuming Hu, and Xiaowen
Chu. 2024. Longgenbench: Long-context generation benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.04199.
Robert Love. 2013. Linux system programming: talking
directly to the kernel and C library. " O’Reilly Media,
Inc.".
Nicholas D Matsakis and Felix S Klock. 2014. The rust
language. ACM SIGAda Ada Letters, 34(3):103–104.
Barton P Miller, Lars Fredriksen, and Bryan So. 1990.
An empirical study of the reliability of unix utilities.
Communications of the ACM, 33(12):32–44.
MITRE. 2006a. CWE-121: Stack-based Buffer Overflow.
MITRE. 2006b. CWE-122: Heap-based Buffer Overflow.
MITRE. 2006c. CWE-401: Missing Release of Memory after Effective Lifetime.
MITRE. 2006d. CWE-416: Use After Free.

Marc Szafraniec, Baptiste Roziere, Hugh Leather Francois Charton, Patrick Labatut, and Gabriel Synnaeve.
2023. Code translation with compiler representations.
ICLR.
The Rust Project Contributors. Clippy.
TIOBE. 2025. TIOBE Index for January 2025.
Qilong Wu, Taoran Li, Tianyang Zhou, and Varun Chandrasekaran. 2025. Sok: Understanding (new) security issues across ai4code use cases. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2512.18456.
Xiph. 2025. Xiph/ogg: Reference implementation of
the Ogg media container.
Aidan ZH Yang, Yoshiki Takashima, Brandon Paulsen,
Josiah Dodds, and Daniel Kroening. 2024. Vert:
Verified equivalent rust transpilation with large language models as few-shot learners. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.18852.
Hanliang Zhang, Cristina David, Yijun Yu, and Meng
Wang. 2023. Ownership guided c to rust translation.
In International Conference on Computer Aided Verification, pages 459–482. Springer.
Xiaogang Zhu, Sheng Wen, Seyit Camtepe, and Yang
Xiang. 2022. Fuzzing: a survey for roadmap. ACM
Computing Surveys (CSUR), 54(11s):1–36.

Vikram Nitin, Rahul Krishna, Luiz Lemos do Valle, and
Baishakhi Ray. 2025. C2saferrust: Transforming
c projects into safer rust with neurosymbolic techniques. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.14257.
Rangeet Pan, Ali Reza Ibrahimzada, Rahul Krishna,
Divya Sankar, Lambert Pouguem Wassi, Michele
Merler, Boris Sobolev, Raju Pavuluri, Saurabh Sinha,
and Reyhaneh Jabbarvand. 2023. Understanding the
effectiveness of large language models in code translation. CoRR.
Neil Perry, Megha Srivastava, Deepak Kumar, and Dan
Boneh. 2023. Do users write more insecure code
with ai assistants? In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 2785–2799.
Ruchir Puri, David Kung, Geert Janssen, Wei Zhang,
Giacomo Domeniconi, Vladmir Zolotov, Julian
Dolby, Jie Chen, Mihir Choudhury, Lindsey Decker,
Veronika Thost, Luca Buratti, Saurabh Pujar, Shyam
Ramji, Ulrich Finkler, Susan Malaika, and Frederick Reiss. 2021. Codenet: A large-scale ai for code
dataset for learning a diversity of coding tasks.
Manish Shetty, Naman Jain, Adwait Godbole, Sanjit A
Seshia, and Koushik Sen. 2024. Syzygy: Dual codetest c to (safe) rust translation using llms and dynamic
analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.14234.
Momoko Shiraishi and Takahiro Shinagawa. 2024.
Context-aware code segmentation for c-to-rust translation using large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.10506.

656

A

Differences Between C and Rust

A.1 Code Snippets
Here is a code example to demonstrate the differences between C and Rust. The example shows a
simple C program and its equivalent Rust program.
The create_sequence function takes an integer n
as input and returns an array with a sequence of
integers. In C, the function needs to allocate memory for the array using malloc and will return the
pointer to the allocated memory as an array. If the
size is invalid, or the allocation fails, the function
will return NULL. The caller of the function is responsible for freeing the memory using free when
it is done with the array to prevent memory leaks.
C Code:
int* create_sequence(int n) {
if (n <= 0) {
return NULL;
}
int* arr = malloc(n * sizeof(int));
if (!arr) {
return NULL;
}
for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
arr[i] = i;
}
return arr;
}

B

Preprocessing and Task Division

B.1

Preprocessing of C Files

To support real-world C projects, SACTOR parses
the compile commands generated by the make tool,
extracting relevant flags for preprocessing, parsing,
compilation, linking, and third-party tools’ use.
C source files usually contain preprocessing
directives, such as #include, #define, #ifdef,
#endif, etc., which we need to resolve before
parsing C files. For #include, we copy and expand non-system headers recursively while keeping #include of system headers intact, because included non-system headers contain project-specific
definitions such as structs and enums that the LLM
has not known while system headers’ contents are
known to the LLM and expanding them would unnecessarily introduce too much noise. For other
directives, we pass relevant C project compile flags
to the C preprocessor from GCC to resolve them.
B.2

int* sequence = create_sequence(5);
if (sequence == NULL) {
...
}
...
free(sequence); // Need to free the memory when done

Rust Code:
fn create_sequence(n: i32) -> Option<Vec<i32>> {
if n <= 0 {
return None;
}
let mut arr = Vec::with_capacity(n as usize);
for i in 0..n {
arr.push(i);
}
Some(arr)
}
match create_sequence(5) {
Some(sequence) => {
... // Does not need to free the memory
}
None => {
...
}
}

Figure 5: Example of a simple C program and its equivalent Rust program, both hand-written for illustration.

The task division algorithm is used to determine
the order in which the items should be translated.
The algorithm is shown in Algorithm 1.
In the algorithm, Li is the list of items to be
translated, and dep(a) is a function that returns the
dependencies of item a. The algorithm returns a list
Lsorted that contains the items in the order in which
they should be translated. It begins by collecting all
items (e.g., functions, structs) to be translated and
their respective dependencies (in both functions
and data types). Items with no unresolved dependencies are pushed into the translation order list
first, and other items will remove them from their
dependencies list. This process continues until all
items are pushed into the list. If no item is added
to Lsorted during an iteration (i.e., every remaining
item has an unprocessed dependency), the graph
contains a cycle. SACTOR currently treats this as
unsupported and terminates with an explicit error.

C

A.2 Tabular Summary
Here, we present a non-exhaustive list of differences between C and Rust in Table 5, highlighting
the key features that make translating code from C
to Rust challenging. While the list is not comprehensive, it provides insights into the fundamental
distinctions between the two languages, which can
help developers understand the challenges of migrating C code to Rust.

Algorithm for Task Division

Feedback and Repair Procedure

Algorithm 2 describes the translation and repair
loop applied to each function or data structures.
Both the unidiomatic and idiomatic stages use the
same procedure; they differ only in the prompt
context supplied to the LLM (the idiomatic stage
additionally provides Crown pointer analysis hints
and the interface specification) and the verification
harness (the idiomatic stage uses a SPEC-driven
harness to bridge ABI differences).

657

F EATURE

C

RUST

M EMORY M ANAGEMENT

Manual (through malloc/free)

Automatic (through ownership and borrowing)

P OINTERS

Raw pointers like *p

Safe references like &p/&mut p, Box and Rc

L IFETIME M ANAGEMENT

Manual freeing of memory

Lifetime annotations and borrow checker

E RROR H ANDLING

Error codes and manual checks

Explicit handling with Result and Option types

N ULL S AFETY

Null pointers allowed (e.g., NULL)

No null pointers; uses Option for nullable values

C ONCURRENCY

No built-in protections for data races

Enforces safe concurrency with ownership rules

T YPE C ONVERSION

Implicit conversions allowed and common

Strongly typed; no implicit conversions

S TANDARD L IBRARY

C stand library with direct system calls

Rust standard library with utilities for strings, collections, and I/O

L ANGUAGE F EATURES

Procedure-oriented with minimal abstractions

Modern features like pattern matching, generics, and traits

Table 5: Key Differences Between C and Rust

Algorithm 1 Translation Task Order Determination
Require: Li : List of items to be translated
Require: dep(a): Function to get dependencies of item a
Ensure: Lsorted : List of groups resolving dependencies
1: Lsorted ← ∅
▷ Empty list
2: Lprocessed ← ∅
3: while |Lsorted | < |Li | do
4:
progress ← false
5:
for a ∈ Li do
6:
if a ∈
/ Lprocessed and dep(a) ⊆ Lprocessed then
7:
Lsorted ← Lsorted + a
▷ Add to sorted list
8:
Lprocessed ← Lprocessed ∪ {a}
9:
progress ← true
10:
end if
11:
end for
12:
if ¬ progress then
13:
abort
▷ Unsupported: cyclic dependency detected
14:
end if
15: end while
16: return Lsorted
Subroutine details.
• C OMPILE invokes the Rust compiler on the translated fragment and returns the compiler diagnostics (error spans and messages) on failure.
• FFI_L INK compiles the Rust translation as a
shared library and links it into the original C
build so that calls to the target function are dispatched to the Rust implementation.
• RUN _E2E_T ESTS executes the project’s existing end-to-end tests on the mixed C/Rust binary.
The translated function is annotated with the
trace_fn procedural macro, which automatically logs each invocation’s arguments and return value. If the test times out, the attempt is
treated as a failure.
• E XTRACT _T RACES parses the test output

for execution traces (delimited by Entering
function / Exiting function markers).
When traces are present, they provide the LLM
with concrete input/output evidence; otherwise,
the raw test stderr is used as feedback.
• LLM_R EPAIR re-queries the LLM with the
failed translation and the structured feedback,
asking it to analyze the error and produce a corrected version.

D

Equivalence Testing Details in Prior
Literature

D.1

Symbolic Execution-Based Equivalence

Symbolic execution explores all potential execution paths of a program by using symbolic inputs
to generate constraints (King, 1976; Baldoni et al.,

658

Algorithm 2 Fragment Translation with Feedback
Require: f : source fragment (function or data structure) to translate
Require: ctx : translation context (dependencies, type hints, Crown output for idiomatic)
Require: K: maximum number of attempts
Ensure: Verified Rust translation of f , or FAIL
1: translation ← LLM_T RANSLATE(f, ctx )
▷ Initial LLM translation
2: for attempt = 1 to K do
3:
(compileOk , errors) ← C OMPILE(translation)
4:
if ¬ compileOk then
5:
translation ← LLM_R EPAIR(f, ctx , translation, errors)
6:
continue
7:
end if
8:
binary ← FFI_L INK(translation, original C build)
▷ Link Rust into C via FFI
9:
(testOk , output) ← RUN _E2E_T ESTS(binary)
▷ trace_fn macro instruments the target
10:
if testOk then
11:
return translation
▷ Verified
12:
end if
13:
feedback ← E XTRACT _T RACES(output)
▷ Parse execution traces from test output
14:
translation ← LLM_R EPAIR(f, ctx , translation, feedback )
15: end for
16: return FAIL
2018; Coward, 1988). While theoretically powerful, this method is impractical for verifying C-toRust equivalence due to differences in language
features. For instance, Rust’s RAII (Resource Acquisition Is Initialization) pattern automatically inserts destructors for memory management, while
C relies on explicit malloc and free calls. These
differences cause mismatches in compiled code,
making it difficult for symbolic execution engines
to prove equivalence. Additionally, Rust’s compiler
adds safety checks (e.g., array boundary checks),
which further complicate equivalence verification.

E

An Example of the Test Harness

Here, we provide an example of the test harness used to verify the correctness of the translated code in Figure 6, which is used to verify
the idiomatic Rust code. In this example, the
concat_str_idiomatic function is the idiomatic
translation we are testing, while the concat_str_c
function is the test harness function that can be
linked back to the original C code. where a string
and an integer are passed as input, and an owned
string is returned. Input strings are converted from
C’s char* to Rust’s &str, and output strings are
converted from Rust’s String back to C’s char*.
fn concat_str_idiomatic(orig: &str, num: i32) -> String {
format!("{}{}", orig, num)
}

D.2 Fuzz Testing-Based Equivalence
Fuzz testing generates random or mutated inputs
to test whether program outputs match expected
results (Zhu et al., 2022; Miller et al., 1990; Liang
et al., 2018). While more practical than symbolic execution, fuzz testing faces challenges in
constructing meaningful inputs for real-world programs. For example, testing a URL parsing function requires generating valid URLs with specific
formats, which is non-trivial. For large C programs,
this difficulty scales, making it infeasible to produce high-quality test cases for every translated
Rust function.

fn concat_str(orig: *const c_char, num: c_int) -> *const c_char {
// convert input
let orig_str = CStr::from_ptr(orig)
.to_str()
.expect("Invalid UTF-8 string");
// call target function
let out = concat_str_idiomatic(orig_str, num as i32);
// convert output
let out_str = CString::new(out).unwrap();
// `into_raw` transfers ownership to the caller
out_str.into_raw()
}

Figure 6: Test harness used for verifying concat_str
translation

F

An Example of SACTOR Translation
Process

To demonstrate the translation process of SACTOR, we present a straightforward example of

659

translating a C function to Rust. The C program includes an atoi function that converts a string to an
integer, and a main function that parses commandline arguments and calls the atoi function. The C
code is shown in Figure 7a.
We assume that there are numerous end-to-end
tests for the C code, allowing SACTOR to use
them for verifying the correctness of the translated
Rust code.
First, the divider will divide the C code into two
parts: the atoi function and the main function,
and determine the translation order is first atoi
and then main, as atoi is the dependency of main
and the atoi function is a pure function.
Next, SACTOR proceeds with the unidiomatic
translation, converting both functions into unidiomatic Rust code. This generated code will keep
the semantics of the original C code while using
Rust syntax. Once the translation is complete, the
unidiomatic verifier executes the end-to-end tests to
ensure the correctness of the translated function. If
the verifier passes all tests, SACTOR considers the
unidiomatic translation accurate and progresses to
the next function. If any test fails, SACTOR will
retry the translation process using the feedback information collected from the verifier, as described
in § 4.3. After translating all sections of the C code,
SACTOR will combine the unidiomatic Rust code
segments to form the final unidiomatic Rust code.
The unidiomatic Rust code is shown in Figure 7b.
Then, the SACTOR will start the idiomatic
translation process and translate the unidiomatic
Rust code into idiomatic Rust code. The idiomatic
translator requests the LLM to adapt the C semantics into idiomatic Rust, eliminating any unsafe
and non-idiomatic constructs, as detailed in § 4.2.
Based on the same order, the SACTOR will translate two functions accordingly, and using the idiomatic verifier to verify and provide the feedback
to the LLM if the verification fails. After all parts
of the Rust code are translated into idiomatic Rust,
verified, and combined, the SACTOR will produces the final idiomatic Rust code. The idiomatic
Rust code is shown in Figure 7c, representing the
final output of SACTOR.

G

#include <stdio.h>
int atoi(char *str) {
int result = 0;
int sign = 1;
while (*str == ' ' || *str == '\t' || *str == '\n' ||
*str == '\r' || *str == '\v' || *str == '\f') {
str++;
}
if (*str == '+' || *str == '-') {
if (*str == '-') {
sign = -1;
}
str++;
}
while (*str >= '0' && *str <= '9') {
result = result * 10 + (*str - '0');
str++;
}
}

}

The TransCoder-IR dataset is used to evaluate the
TransCoder-IR model and consists of solutions

int value = atoi(argv[1]);
printf("Parsed integer: %d\n", value);
return 0;

(a) C implementation of atoi
use libc::c_char;
use std::env;
use std::ffi::CString;
use std::process;
pub unsafe fn atoi(str: *const c_char) -> i32 {
let mut result: i32 = 0;
let mut sign: i32 = 1;
let mut ptr = str;
while *ptr == ' ' as c_char
|| *ptr == '\t' as c_char
|| *ptr == '\n' as c_char
|| *ptr == '\r' as c_char
|| *ptr == '\x0B' as c_char
|| *ptr == '\x0C' as c_char
{
ptr = ptr.add(1);
}
if *ptr == '+' as c_char || *ptr == '-' as c_char {
if *ptr == '-' as c_char {
sign = -1;
}
ptr = ptr.add(1);
}
while *ptr >= '0' as c_char && *ptr <= '9' as c_char {
let digit = (*ptr - '0' as c_char) as i32;
if let Some(new_result) = result.checked_mul(10).and_then(
|r| r.checked_add(digit),
) {
result = new_result;
} else {
return if sign == 1 { i32::MAX } else { i32::MIN };
}
ptr = ptr.add(1);
}
sign * result
}
pub fn main() {
let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
if args.len() != 2 {
println!("Usage: {} <number>", args[0]);
process::exit(1);
}
let c_str = match CString::new(args[1].as_str()) {
Ok(cstring) => cstring,
Err(_) => {
eprintln!("Failed to create CString from input");
process::exit(1);
}
};
let value = unsafe { atoi(c_str.as_ptr() as *const c_char) };
println!("Parsed integer: {}", value);
}

(b) Unidiomatic Rust translation from C
use std::env;
use std::process;
pub fn atoi(input: &str) -> i32 {
let mut result: i32 = 0;
let mut sign: i32 = 1;
let mut chars = input.chars().peekable();
while let Some(&c) = chars.peek() {
if c.is_whitespace() {
chars.next();
} else {
break;
}
}
if let Some(&c) = chars.peek() {
if c == '+' || c == '-' {
if c == '-' {
sign = -1;
}
chars.next();
}
}
for c in chars {
if let Some(digit) = c.to_digit(10) {
if let Some(new_result) = result
.checked_mul(10)
.and_then(|r| r.checked_add(digit as i32))
{
result = new_result;
} else {
return if sign == 1 { i32::MAX } else { i32::MIN };
}
} else {
break;
}
}
sign * result
}
pub fn main() {
let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
if args.len() != 2 {
println!("Usage: {} <number>", args[0]);
process::exit(1);
}
let input = &args[1];
let value = atoi(input);
println!("Parsed integer: {}", value);
}

Dataset Details

G.1 TransCoder-IR Dataset (Szafraniec et al.,
2023)

return sign * result;

int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
if (argc != 2) {
printf("Usage: %s <number>\n", argv[0]);
return 1;
}

(c) Idiomatic Rust translation from unidiomatic
Rust

Figure 7: SACTOR translation process for atoi program

660

DATASET

S IZE

P REPROCESSING

T RANS C ODER -IR (S ZAFRANIEC ET AL ., 2023)

100

P ROJECT C ODE N ET (P URI ET AL ., 2021)

100

CRUST-B ENCH (K HATRY ET AL ., 2025)

50

LIBOGG (X IPH , 2025)

1

Removed buggy programs (compilation/memory
errors) and entries with existing Rust
Filtered
for
external-input
programs
(argc/argv); auto-generated tests
Excluded unsupported patterns; combine code
of each sample to a single lib.c
None. Each component of the library is contained within a single C file.

E2E T ESTS

C OVERAGE (L INE /F UNC )

Present

97.97% / 99.5%

Generated

94.37% / 100%

Present

76.18% / 80.98%

Present

83.3% / 75.3%

Table 6: Summary of datasets and real-world code-bases used for evaluation; coverage audited with gcov on the
tests exercised in our pipeline.

to coding challenges in various programming languages. For evaluation, we focus on the 698 C
programs available in this dataset. First, we filter
out programs that already have corresponding Rust
code. Several C programs in the dataset contain
bugs, which are removed by checking their ability
to compile. We then use valgrind to identify and
discard programs with memory errors during the
end-to-end tests. Finally, we select 100 programs
with the most lines of code for our experiments.
G.2 Project CodeNet (Puri et al., 2021)
Project CodeNet is a large-scale dataset for code understanding and translation, containing 14 million
code samples in over 50 programming languages
collected from online judge websites. From this
dataset, which includes more than 750,000 C programs, we target only those that accept external
input. Specifically, we filter programs using argc
and argv, which process input from the command
line. As the end-to-end tests are not available for
this dataset, we develop the SACTOR test generator to automatically generate end-to-end tests
for these programs based on the source code. For
evaluation, we select 200 programs and refine the
dataset to include 100 programs that successfully
generate end-to-end tests.
G.3 CRust-Bench (Khatry et al., 2025)
CRust-Bench is a repository-level benchmark for
C-to-safe-Rust transpilation. It collects 100 realworld C repositories (the CBench suite) and pairs
each with a manually written, safe Rust interface
and a set of tests that assert functional correctness.
By evaluating full repositories rather than isolated
functions, CRust-Bench surfaces challenges common in practice, such as complex, pointer-rich
APIs. In our evaluation, we use a 50-sample subset in CRust-Bench, which exclude entries that are
out of scope for our pipeline (e.g., circular type or
function dependencies and compiler-specific intrinsics that do not map cleanly). For each selected

sample, we reuse the upstream end-to-end tests
and relink them so that calls exercise our translated
code; build environments and link flags follow the
sample’s configuration.
G.4

libogg (Xiph, 2025)

libogg is the reference implementation of the Ogg
multimedia container. Ogg is a stream-oriented
format that frames, timestamps, and multiplexes
compressed media bitstreams (e.g., audio/video)
into a robust, seekable stream. The libogg distribution contains only the Ogg container library
(codecs such as Vorbis or Theora are hosted separately). In our case study, the codebase comprises
roughly 2,041 lines of code (excluding tests), six
struct definitions, three global variables, and 77
exported functions. We use the project’s upstream
tests and build scripts. This single-project evaluation complements the CRust-Bench subset by
focusing on non-trivial structs, buffers, and pointer
manipulation in a real-world C library.

H

Failure Analysis in Evaluating
SACTOR

Here, we analyze the failure cases of SACTOR
in translating C code to Rust that we conducted in
Section 6.1. as cases where SACTOR fails offer
valuable insights into areas that require refinement.
For each failure case in the two datasets, we conduct an analysis to determine the primary cause
of translation failure. This process involves leveraging DeepSeek-R1 to identify potential reasons
(prompts available in Appendix N.5), followed by
manual verification to ensure correctness. We only
focus on the translation process from C to unidiomatic Rust because: (1) it is the most challenging
step, and (2) it can better reflect the model’s ability
to fit the syntactic and semantic differences between the two languages. Table 7 summarize the
categories of failure reasons, and Figure 8a and 8b
illustrate failure reasons (FRs) across models.

661

(a) TransCoder-IR
C ATEGORY
R1
R2
R3
R4
R5
R6

D ESCRIPTION
Memory safety violations in array operations due to improper bounds checking
Mismatched data type translations
Incorrect array sizing and memory layout translations
Incorrect string representation conversion between C and Rust
Failure to handle C’s undefined behavior with Rust’s safety mechanisms
Use of C-specific functions in Rust without proper Rust wrappers

(b) Project CodeNet
C ATEGORY
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
S7

D ESCRIPTION
Improper translation of command-line argument handling or attempt to fix wrong handling
Function naming mismatches between C and Rust
Format string directive mistranslation causing output inconsistencies
Original code contains random number generation
SACTOR unable to translate mutable global state variables
Mismatched data type translations
Incorrect control flow or loop boundary condition translations

Table 7: Failure reason categories for translating TransCoder-IR and Project CodeNet datasets.

GPT-4o

Claude 3.5

Llama 3.3
6

20

5

Number of Files

Number of Files

DeepSeek-R1

7

25

15

4
3

10

2

5
0

Gemini 2.0

1
R1

R2

R3
R4
Categories

R5

0

R6

(a) TransCoder-IR

S1

S2

S3

S4
S5
Categories

S6

S7

(b) Project CodeNet

Figure 8: Failure reasons across different LLM models for both datasets.

(1) TransCoder-IR (Table 7a, Figure 8a): Based
on the analysis, we observe that different models
exhibit varying failure reasons. Claude 3.5 shows a
particularly high incidence of string representation
conversion errors (R4), with 25 out of 45 total failures in the unidiomatic translation step. In contrast,
GPT-4o has only 1 out of 17 failures in this category. Llama 3.3 demonstrates consistent challenges
with both R3 (incorrect array sizing and memory
layout translations) and R6 (using C-specific functions without proper Rust wrappers), with 10 files
for each category. GPT-4o shows a more balanced
distribution of errors, with its highest count in R3.
All models except GPT-4o struggle with string handling (R4) to varying degrees, suggesting this is
one of the most challenging aspects of the translation process. For R6 (use of C-specific functions
in Rust), which primarily is a compilation failure,
only Llama 3.3 and Gemini 2.0 consistently fail to
resolve the issue in some cases, while all other models can successfully handle the compilation errors

through feedback and avoid failure in this category.
DeepSeek-R1 has the fewest overall errors across
categories, with failures only in R1 (1 file), R3 (2
files), and R4 (3 files), while completely avoiding
errors in R2, R5, and R6.
(2) Project CodeNet (Table 7b, Figure 8b): Similar
to the TransCoder-IR dataset, we also observe that
different models in Project CodeNet demonstrate
varying failure reasons. C-to-Rust code translation
challenges in the CodeNet dataset. Most notably,
S6 (mismatched data type translations) presents
a significant barrier for Llama 3.3 and Gemini
2.0 (7 files each), while GPT-4o and Claude 3.5
completely avoid this issue. Input argument handling (S1) and format string mistranslations (S3)
emerge as common challenges across all models
in CodeNet, suggesting fundamental difficulties in
translating these language features regardless of
model architecture. Only Llama 3.3 and DeepSeekR1 encounter control flow translation failures (S7),
with 2 files each. S4 (random number generation)

662

and S5 (mutable global state variables) are unable
to be translated by SACTOR because the current
SACTOR implementation does not support these
features.
Compared to the results in TransCoder-IR, string
representation conversion (R4 in TransCoder-IR,
S3 in CodeNet) remains a consistent challenge
across both datasets for all models, though the issue is significantly more severe in TransCoder-IR,
particularly for Claude 3.5 (24 files). This also suggests that reasoning models like DeepSeek-R1 are
better at handling complex code logic and string/array manipulation, as they exhibit fewer failures in
these areas, demonstrating the potential of reasoning models to address complex translation tasks.

I

SACTOR Cost Analysis
DATASET

T OKENS

AVG . Q UERIES

Claude 3.5

LLM

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

4595.33
3080.28

5.15
3.15

Gemini 2.0

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

3343.12
2209.38

4.24
2.39

Llama 3.3

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

4622.80
4456.84

5.39
3.80

GPT-4o

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

2651.21
2565.36

4.24
2.95

DeepSeek-R1

TransCoder-IR
CodeNet

17895.52
13592.61

4.77
3.11

measured in token usage and query count per successful idiomatic Rust translation as mentioned in
§ 5.2.
Results: Gemini 2.0 and GPT-4o are the most efficient models, requiring the fewest tokens and
queries. GPT-4o maintains a low token cost
(2651.21 on TransCoder-IR, 2565.36 on CodeNet)
with 4.24 and 2.95 average queries, respectively.
Gemini 2.0 is similarly efficient, especially on CodeNet, with the lowest token usage (2209.38) and
requiring only 2.39 queries on average. Claude
3.5, despite its strong performance on CodeNet,
incurs higher costs on TransCoder-IR (4595.33 tokens, 5.15 queries), likely due to additional translation steps. Llama 3.3 is the least efficient in nonthinking model (GPT-4o, Claude 3.5, Gemini 2.0),
consuming the most tokens (4622.80 and 4456.84,
respectively) and requiring the highest number of
queries (5.39 and 3.80, respectively), indicating
significant resource demands.
As a reasoning model, DeepSeek-R1 consumes
significantly more tokens (17,895.52 vs. 13,592.61)
than non-reasoning models–5-7 times higher than
GPT-4o–despite having a similar average query
count (4.77 vs. 3.11) for generating idiomatic Rust
code. This high token usage comes from the “reasoning process” required before code generation.

J

Table 8: Average Cost Comparison of Different LLMs
Across Two Datasets. The color intensity represents the
relative cost of each metric for each dataset.

Here, we conduct a cost analysis of SACTOR
for experiments in § 6.1 to evaluate the efficiency
of different LLMs in generating idiomatic Rust
code. To evaluate the cost of our approach, we
measure (1) Total LLM Queries as the number of
total LLM queries made during translation and verification for a single test case in each dataset, and
(2) Total Token Count as the total number of tokens processed by the LLM for a single test case
in each dataset. To ensure a fair comparison across
models, we use the same tokenizer (tiktoken) and
encoding (o200k_base).
In order to better understand costs, we only analyze programs that successfully generate idiomatic
Rust code, excluding failed attempts (as they always reach the maximum retry limit and do not contribute meaningfully to the cost analysis). We evaluate the combined cost of both translation phases
to assess overall efficiency. Table 8 compares the
average cost of different LLMs across two datasets,

Ablation Study on SACTOR Designs

This appendix reports additional ablations that evaluate key design choices in SACTOR. All experiments in this section use GPT-4o with the same
configuration as Table 1.
J.1

Feedback Mechanism

To evaluate the effectiveness of the feedback mechanism proposed in § 4.3, we conduct an ablation
study by removing the mechanism and comparing the model’s performance with and without it.
We consider two experimental groups: (1) with
the feedback mechanism enabled, and (2) without
the feedback mechanism. In the latter setting, if
any part of the translation fails, the system simply
restarts the translation attempt using the original
prompt, without providing any feedback from the
failure.
We use the same dataset and evaluation metrics described in § 5, and focus our evaluation on
only two models: GPT-4o and Llama 3.3 70B. We
choose these models because GPT-4o demonstrated
one of the highest performance and Llama 3.3 70B

663

the lowest in our earlier experiments. By comparing the success rates between the two groups, we
assess whether the feedback mechanism improves
translation performance across models of different
capabilities.
The results are shown in Figure 9.
(1) TransCoder-IR (Figure 9a): Incorporating
the feedback mechanism increased the number of
successful translations for Llama 3.3 70B from 57
to 76 in the unidiomatic setting and from 46 to
64 in the idiomatic setting. In contrast, GPT-4o
performed slightly worse with feedback, decreasing from 87 to 84 (unidiomatic) and from 83 to 80
(idiomatic).
(2) Project CodeNet (Figure 9b): A similar
trend is observed where Llama 3.3 70B improved
from 62 to 83 (unidiomatic) and from 59 to 76
(idiomatic), corresponding to gains of 21 and 17
percentage points, respectively. GPT-4o, however,
showed only marginal improvements: from 82 to
84 in the unidiomatic setting and from 77 to 79 in
the idiomatic setting.
These results suggest that the feedback mechanism is particularly effective for lower-capability
models like Llama 3.3, substantially improving
their translation success rates. In contrast, highercapability models such as GPT-4o already perform
near optimal with simple random sampling, leaving
little space for improvement. This indicates that the
feedback mechanism is more beneficial for models
with lower capabilities, as they can leverage the
feedback to enhance their overall performance.
J.2 Plain LLM Translation vs. SACTOR
We compare SACTOR against a trivial baseline where GPT-4o directly translates each CRustBench sample from C to Rust in a single step. We
reuse the same end-to-end (E2E) test harness as
SACTOR, and give the trivial baseline more budget: up to 10 repair attempts with compiler/test
feedback (vs. 6 attempts in SACTOR). We study
two prompts: (i) a minimal one (“translate the
following C code to Rust”); and (ii) an interfacepreserving one that explicitly asks the model to
preserve pointer arithmetic, memory layout, and integer type semantics (thereby encouraging unsafe).
We report function success as the fraction of functions whose Rust translation passes all tests, and
sample success as the fraction of samples where all
translated functions pass.
Results on CRust-Bench. Even with 10 attempts
and an “encourage unsafe” prompt, the trivial

baseline reaches only 21.43% function success
and 40.00% sample success. Its sample-level
performance exceeds SACTOR’s idiomatic stage
(40.00% vs. 25.00%) because preserving C-style
pointer logic in unsafe Rust is substantially easier than performing an idiomatic rewrite. However,
SACTOR achieves much higher function-level correctness and produces significantly more idiomatic
code (e.g., 0.28 vs. 1.90 average Clippy alerts per
function).
Results on libogg. Under the same E2E tests
and attempt budget as SACTOR, both trivial
prompts fail to produce any test-passing translations, whereas SACTOR achieves 100% unidiomatic and 53% idiomatic success with GPT-4o
(Table 4). This indicates that plain one-shot translation collapses on pointer-heavy libraries, while
SACTOR remains effective.
J.3

Effect of Crown in the Idiomatic Stage

We ablate Crown’s contribution to idiomatic translation (§ 4.2) on libogg, using the same setup as
§ 6.3 and keeping all other components unchanged.
Table 10 reports idiomatic function success with
and without Crown.
Results and Representative failure patterns.
Turning off Crown reduces idiomatic success from
41 to 34 functions. The failures are structured. Two
representative patterns are:
// Without Crown ( shape lost ):
pub struct OggPackBuffer { pub ptr :
usize }
// With Crown ( shape preserved ) :
pub struct OggPackBuffer { pub ptr : Vec <
u8 > }
// Without Crown ( ownership
misclassified as owned ) :
pub struct OggIovec { pub iov_base : Vec <
u8 > }
// With Crown ( ownership made explicit ) :
pub struct OggIovec < 'a > { pub iov_base :
& ' a [ u8 ] }

Once a buffer pointer is collapsed into a scalar index, the harness cannot reconstruct a valid C-facing
view of the struct, so pointer arithmetic and buffer
access fail together. Similarly, if a non-owning
pointer (e.g., unsigned char *iov_base) is misclassified as owned storage (Vec<u8>), Rust ends
up “owning” memory that C actually controls, making safe round-tripping infeasible without inventing
allocation/free rules that do not exist.
Interpretation. These failures do not indicate
model weakness but an information-theoretic lim-

664

Unidiomatic SR 1
Unidiomatic SR 2
Unidiomatic SR 3

Unidiomatic SR 4
Unidiomatic SR 5
Unidiomatic SR 6

Unidiomatic (-FBK)
Idiomatic SR 1
Idiomatic SR 2

80
60
40
20
0

Idiomatic SR 6
Idiomatic (-FBK)

100
Count (out of 100 tasks)

Count (out of 100 tasks)

100

Idiomatic SR 3
Idiomatic SR 4
Idiomatic SR 5

Llama 3.3 70B

LLM Models

80
60
40
20
0

GPT-4o

(a) TransCoder-IR With/Without Feedback

Llama 3.3 70B

LLM Models

GPT-4o

(b) CodeNet With/Without Feedback

Figure 9: Ablation study on the feedback mechanism. The success rates of the models with and without the feedback
(marked as -FBK) mechanism are shown for both TransCoder-IR and CodeNet datasets.
M ETHOD

M AX ATT.

F UNCTION SUCCESS

S AMPLE SUCCESS

AVG . C LIPPY / FUNC .

SACTOR unidiomatic
SACTOR idiomatic†

6
6

788/966 (81.57%)
249/580 (42.93%)

32/50 (64.00%)
8/32 (25.00%)

2.96
0.28

Trivial (1-step)
Trivial (1-step, encourage unsafe)

10
10

77/966 (7.97%)
207/966 (21.43%)

12/50 (24.00%)
20/50 (40.00%)

1.60
1.90

Table 9: Plain LLM translation vs. SACTOR on CRust-Bench (GPT-4o). The trivial baselines directly translate
each sample in one step with up to 10 repair attempts. † The idiomatic stage is evaluated only on samples whose
unidiomatic stage fully translated all functions.
C ONFIGURATION
SACTOR
SACTOR w/o Crown

# I DIOM . SF

I DIOM . SR

R EL . DROP

41
34

53%
44%

–
17%

as in § 6.3.
J.4.1

Table 10: Ablating Crown on libogg (GPT-4o). SF
stands for successful functions, and SR stands for success rate. Removing Crown reduces idiomatic success
by 17%.

itation: local C syntax does not encode pointer
fatness or ownership. For a declaration such as
char *iov_base, both Vec<u8> and &mut u8 are
locally plausible. Even an idealized oracle model
cannot uniquely infer the correct Rust type without global information about ownership and fatness.
Crown supplies these semantics via whole-program
static analysis; removing it makes idiomatic translation of pointer-heavy code underdetermined and
explains the observed drop.
J.4 Prompting about unsafe in Stage 1
We ablate the stage-1 (unidiomatic translation)
prompt line that says “the model may use unsafe
if needed.” All experiments in this subsection are
conducted on libogg, using exactly the same setup

Removing “may use unsafe if needed”

We compare the original stage-1 prompt with a
variant that deletes this line, keeping everything
else unchanged.
Two observations follow.
(1) Overall unsafety hardly changes:
the unsafe fraction drops only from 99.99% to 98.55%.
(2) The safety profile becomes worse:
clippy::not_unsafe_ptr_arg_deref
jumps
from 1 to 146. That is, the model keeps APIs
safe-looking but dereferences raw pointer arguments inside function bodies, pushing unsafety
from explicit unsafe fn signatures into hidden
dereferences inside safe-looking public functions.
J.4.2

Replacing With “AVOID using unsafe”

We replace “may use unsafe if needed” with a
stronger directive: “AVOID using unsafe whenever possible”.
Under “AVOID unsafe”, the model often attempts
premature “safe Rust” rewrites of pointer-heavy
C code (changing buffer layouts, index arithmetic,
and integer types), which increases logic and type

665

P ROMPT VARIANT
Baseline stage 1 (may use unsafe)
Remove “may use unsafe”

U NIDI . SR

C LIPPY TOTAL

missing_safety_doc

not_unsafe_ptr_arg_deref

U NSAFE FRACTION

100%
100%

108
224

76
37

1
146

8704/8705 (99.99%)
8100/8219 (98.55%)

Table 11: Removing explicit permission to use unsafe in stage 1 on libogg (GPT-4o).
P ROMPT VARIANT
Baseline stage 1
Replace with “AVOID unsafe”

PASSED /T OTAL

SR

R EL . DROP

77/77
66/77

100%
85%

–
15%

reliability some of the cases, but it does not significantly affect the overall performance of SACTOR.

Table 12: Discouraging unsafe in stage 1 harms unidiomatic success on libogg (GPT-4o).

errors and breaks translations. Together, these two
prompt variants show that discouraging unsafe in
stage 1 harms correctness and produces a worse
safety profile, supporting our design choice: allow
necessary unsafe in the syntactic first stage, then
systematically remove it in the idiomatic refinement stage.

K

SACTOR Performance with Different
Temperatures

In § 6, all the experiments are conducted with the
temperature set to default values, as explained on
Section 5.3. To investigate how temperature affects
the performance of SACTOR, we conduct additional experiments with different temperature settings (0.0, 0.5, 1.0) for GPT-4o on both TransCoderIR and Project CodeNet datasets, as shown in Figure 10. Through some preliminary experiments and
discussions on OpenAI’s community forum 5 , we
find that setting the temperature more than 1 will
likely to generate more random and less relevant
outputs, which is not suitable for our task.
(1) TransCoder-IR (Figure 10a): Setting the
decoder to a deterministic temperature of t = 0
resulted in 83 successful translations (83%), while
both t = 0.5 and t = 1.0 yielded 80 successes
(80%) each. This represents a slightly improvement with 3 additional correct predictions under
the deterministic setting.
(2) Project CodeNet (Figure 10b): Temperature
does not have a significant impact: the model produced 79, 81, and 79 successful outputs at t = 0,
t = 0.5, and t = 1.0 respectively (79–81%), which
does not indicate any outstanding trend in performance across the temperature settings.
The results on both datasets suggests that lowering temperature to zero can offer a slight boost in
5

https://community.openai.com/t/cheat-sheet-masteringtemperature-and-top-p-in-chatgpt-api/172683

L Spec-driven Harness Rules
This section describes the details of the SPECdriven harness generator used in the idiomatic verification phase. Table 13 summarizes the SPEC patterns our rule-based generator currently supports.
Harness construction details. The generator
consumes a per-item SPEC (JSON) produced
alongside idiomatic code and synthesizes: (i) a
C-compatible shim that matches the original ABI,
and (ii) idiomatic adapters that convert to/from Rust
types. Pointer shapes (scalar, cstring, slice, ref) determine how memory is borrowed or owned; length
sources come from sibling fields or constants; nullability and ownership hints select Option< > or
strict checks. Return values are mapped back to U
form, writing lengths when needed. This bridging
resolves the ABI mismatch introduced by idiomatic
function signatures.
Struct mappings and self-check. For structs,
the SPEC defines bidirectional converters between
unidiomatic and idiomatic layouts. We validate
adapter consistency with a minimal roundtrip:
Unidiomatic → Idiomatic(1) → Unidiomatic
→ Idiomatic(2). The self-check compares Idiomatic(1) and Idiomatic(2) field-by-field according to compare hints: by_value requires exact
equality on scalar fields; by_slice compares slice
contents using the SPEC-recorded length source;
skip omits fields that are aliasing views or externally owned to avoid false positives. Seed unidiomatic values are synthesized by an LLM guided
by the SPEC so that nullability, ownership, and
length sources are populated consistently.
Fallback and verification loop. When a
SPEC uses patterns not yet implemented (e.g.,
pointer kinds outside cstring/slice/ref; nontrivial len_from expressions; string args whose
spec.kind ̸= cstring), the generator emits a
localized TODO that is completed by an LLM
using the same SPEC as guidance; the resulting
harness is then validated as usual. End-to-end tests

666

80

80
Success Rate (%)

Success Rate (%)

100

Unidiomatic SR 1
Unidiomatic SR 4
Unidiomatic SR 2
Unidiomatic SR 5
Unidiomatic SR 3
Unidiomatic SR 6
TransCoder-IR dataset
100

60
40
20
0

Idiomatic SR 1
Idiomatic SR 4
Idiomatic SR 2
Idiomatic SR 5
Idiomatic SR 3
Idiomatic SR 6
Project CodeNet dataset

60
40
20

t=0

t=0.5
GPT-4o Model (Temperature)

0

t=1

(a) Success Rate on TransCoder-IR

t=0

t=0.5
GPT-4o Model (Temperature)

t=1

(b) Success Rate on Project CodeNet

Figure 10: Success Rate of SACTOR with different temperature settings for GPT-4o on TransCoder-IR and Project
CodeNet datasets.

run against the linked harness and idiomatic crate;
passing tests provide confidence under their coverage, while failures trigger the paper’s feedback
procedure for regeneration and refinement.
SPEC rule reference
This section explains the rule families the SPEC
uses to describe how unidiomatic, C-facing values become idiomatic Rust and back. The schema
has two top-level forms: a struct description and a
function description. Both are expressed as small
collections of field mappings from the unidiomatic
side to idiomatic paths; a function return is just
another mapping whose idiomatic path is the special name ret. This uniform treatment keeps the
generator simple and makes the SPEC readable by
humans and machines alike.
Pointer handling is captured by a compact notion
of shape. A field is either a scalar or one of three
pointer shapes: a byte string that follows C conventions, a slice that pairs a pointer with a length,
or a single-object reference. Slices record where
their length comes from (either a sibling field or a
constant). Each pointer also carries a null policy
that distinguishes admissible NULL from forbidden NULL, which in turn selects idiomatic options
versus strict checks in the generated adapters.
Two lightweight hints influence how the harness allocates and how the roundtrip self-check
behaves. An ownership hint (owning vs transient)
signals whether the idiomatic side should materialize owned data or borrow it for the duration of
the call. A comparison hint (by value, by slice, or

skip) declares how roundtrip checks should assert
equality, so that aliasing views or externally owned
buffers can be skipped without producing spurious
failures.
Finally, the schema enforces well-formedness
and defines a safe escape hatch. Invalid combinations are rejected early by validation. Patterns that
are valid but not yet implemented by the generator,
such as complex dotted paths or unusual pointer
views, are localized and handed to the LLM fallback described earlier; the SPEC itself remains the
single source of truth for the intended mapping.

M

Real-world Codebase Evaluation
Details

M.1

CRust-Bench Per-sample Outcomes

Table 14 lists, for each of the 50 samples, the
function-level translation status and a concise failure analysis. Status is reported as per-sample
function-level percentages in separate columns for
the unidiomatic (Unid.) and idiomatic (Id.) stages.
M.2 libogg Outcomes
(1) Using GPT-4o. 36 functions cannot be translated idiomatically. nine of the translation failures
are caused by translated functions not passing the
test cases of libogg. Six failures are due to compile errors in the translations, five of which result
from the LLM violating Rust’s safety rules on lifetime, borrow, and mutability. For example, the
translation of function _os_lacing_expand fails
because the translation sets the value of a function

667

Category

SPEC keys

Scalars

Common libc types are cast with as when needed; default
compare is by value in roundtrip selftest.
ptr.kind: "cstring", ptr.null *const/*mut c_char → String / NULL handling via ptr.null or Option< >; uses
&str / Option<String>
CStr/CString with lossless fallback. Return strings are
converted back to *mut c_char.
ptr.kind: "slice",
*const/*mut T + length →
Requires a length source; empty or NULL produces None or
len_from|len_const
Vec<T>, &[T], or Option<...>
empty according to spec; writes back length on I→U when a
paired length field exists.
ptr.kind: "ref"
*const/*mut T → Box<T> /
For struct T, generator calls auto struct converters
Option<Box<T»
C T_to_T_mut/T_to_C T_mut.
idiomatic path ending with .len
len field ↔ vec.len
Recognizes idiomatic data.len and reuses the same U-side
length field on roundtrip.
ptr.null: nullable|forbidden C pointers → field with/without
nullable maps to Option< > or tolerant empty handling.
Option
ownership: transient
*mut CStruct → &mut Struct or Copies back mutated values after the call using generated
Option<&mut Struct>
struct converters.
Field with i_field.name = "ret" idiomatic return → U output(s)
Scalars: direct or via *mut T. Strings: to *mut c_char. Slices:
pointer + length writeback. Structs: via struct converters.
Optional per-field checks after U→I1→U→I2 roundtrip, and
compare:
selftest behavior
compare with I1 and I2
by_value|by_slice|skip
All SPEC key pairs other than
fallback
Generator emits localized TODOs for LLM completion;
supported paths
schema validation rejects malformed SPECs.

C string

Slices

Single-element ref
Derived length path
Nullability
&mut struct params
Return mapping
Comparison hints
Unsupported paths

shape: "scalar"

U (C/ABI) → I (Rust)

Notes / Status

scalar → scalar

Table 13: SPEC-driven harness coverage. U denotes the unidiomatic C-facing representation; I denotes the idiomatic
Rust side.

parameter to a reference to the function’s local variable vec, leading to an error “`vec` does not live
long enough." Two failures are due to SACTOR
being unable to generate compilable test harnesses.
If a function calls another function that SACTOR
cannot translate, then the caller function cannot
be translated either. This is the reason why the
remaining 13 translations fail.
(2) Using GPT-5. 17 functions cannot be translated
idiomatically. Among them, three are because the
generated functions cannot pass the test cases and
three are due to failure to generate compilable test
harnesses. Only one is caused by a compile error in
the translated function, which shows the progress
of GPT-5 in understanding Rust grammar and fixing compile errors. The remaining failures result
from the callee functions of those functions being
untranslatable.

668

Sample

Unid.
(%)

2DPartInt
42-Kocaeli-Printf

100.0% 100.0% –
75.0% –
C variadics require unstable c_variadic; unresolved va_list import
blocks build.
100.0% 54.6% CamelCase-to-snake_case renaming breaks signature lookup; later run
panics under no-unwind context.
100.0% 60.0% Output buffer sized to input length in harness; bounds-check panic at
runtime.
100.0% 6.9%
Off-by-one rank yields out-of-bounds bucket index; SIGSEGV under tests.
100.0% 44.8% Pointer vs reference semantics mismatch (nullable C pointers vs Rust
references); harness compile errors.
100.0% 100.0% –
75.0% –
Shadowed global hash_table keeps dht_is_initialised() false; assertion in tests.
100.0% 40.0% CamelCase-to-snake_case renaming causes signature/type mismatches;
harness does not compile.
83.3% –
Missing ParseState and CamelCase-to-snake_case renaming breaks signatures; unidiomatic stalls.
85.7% –
Array-shape mismatch (expects 4x4 refs; passes row pointer); plus intrinsics/typedef noise.
Returned C string from amp_decode_arg is not NULL-terminated; strcmp
80.0% –
reads past allocation and trips invalid read under tests.
85.7% –
match_alpha references anonymous enum C2RustUnnamed that is never
defined, causing cascaded missing-type errors across retries.
100.0% 75.0% Capturing closure passed where fn pointer required; FILE*/Rust File
bridging mis-modeled; compile fails.
88.2% –
Many parser errors (enum lacks PartialEq, missing consts, u64 to usize
drift, duplicates).
100.0% 50.0% Treats bit count as byte count in converter; overreads and panics under
tests.
52.4% –
Function-pointer typedefs and pointer-shape drift break callback bridging.

CircularBuffer
FastHamming
Holdem-Odds
Linear-Algebra-C
NandC
Phills_DHT
Simple-Sparsehash
SimpleXML
aes128-SIMD
amp
approxidate
avalanche
bhshell
bitset
bostree

Id. (%)

Failure reason

Category

Trace/instrumentation proc macro requires Debug on opaque C type node;
harness compilation fails for get_node_count.
c-aces
100.0% 3.9%
Struct converter mismatch (Vec<CMatrix2D> vs Vec<Matrix2D>) in generated harness; compile fails after retries.
c-string
100.0% 29.4% Size vs capacity mismatch in StringT constructor; empty buffer returned,
C asserts.
carrays
100.0% 68.5% Trace macro imposes Debug on generic T and callback; harness fails to
compile (e.g., gca_lsearch).
cfsm
50.0% –
Missing typedefs for C function-pointer callbacks; harness lacks nullable
extern signatures, compile fails.
chtrie
100.0% 0.0%
Pointer-of-pointers vs Vec adapter mismatch for struct chtrie
cissy
100.0% 19.1% Anonymous C types that c2rust renamed cannot be fetched correctly as a
dependency
clog
31.6% –
Variadic logging APIs and duplicate globals;
unresolved
vfprintf/c_variadic; compile fails.
cset
100.0% 25.0% Translator renames XXH_readLE64 to xxh_read_le64; SPEC/harness require exact C name; exhausts six attempts.
Unsigned underflow in compute_closed_syncmers (i - S + 1 without
csyncmers
66.7% –
guard) triggers overflow panic; prior __uint128_t typedef issues.
dict
17.7% –
Fn-pointer fields modeled non-optional (need Option<extern "C" fn>);
plus va_list requires nightly c_variadic; compile fails.
emlang
16.3% –
Anonymous-union alias (C2RustUnnamed) misuse;
duplicate
program_new; assertion bridging (__assert_fail) mis-modeled.
expr
33.3% –
Missing C2RustUnnamed alias; C varargs in trace_eval; strncmp len
type mismatch.
file2str
100.0% 100.0% –
fs_c
100.0% 60.0% Idiomatic I/O wrappers mismatch C expectations (closed fd/OwnedFd
abort; Err(NotFound) leads to C-side segfault).
geofence
100.0% 100.0% –
gfc
100.0% 54.6% Converter overread + ownership misuse; later compile errors.
gorilla-paper-encode 100.0% 9.1%
Missing adapters + lifetimes (Cbitwriter_s/Cbitreader_s vs
BitWriter/BitReader<’a>).
hydra
100.0% 50.0% Borrow overlap in list update; name mapping for FindCommand.
btree-map

100.0% 26.3%

inversion_list

17.0%

–

jccc

88.7%

–

leftpad
lib2bit

100.0% 100.0%
100.0% 13.6%

libbase122

100.0% 37.5%

libbeaufort

100.0% 66.7%

libwecan
morton
murmurhash_c
razz_simulation

100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
33.3%

rhbloom

100.0% 33.3%

100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
–

C allows NULL comparator/function pointers; wrapper unwraps and panics.
Missing C2RustUnnamed alias and duplicate Expression/Lexer types;
compile fails.
–
Non-clonable std::fs::File in harness (C FILE* vs Rust File I/O handle mismatch)
Reader cursor/buffer not preserved across calls; writer shape mismatch;
tests fail.
Returns reference to temporary tableau; matrix parameter shape drift
(char** vs Vec<Option<String»); compile fails.
–
–
–
Type-name drift; node shape; ptr/ref API mismatch.
Pointer/ref misuse; bit-length as bytes; overreads/panics.

669

–
Unidiomatic compile (C varargs/unstable
feature)
Idiomatic compile (symbol/name mapping)
Harness runtime (buffer/length)
Runtime fault (boundary/indexing)
Harness compile (pointer/ref semantics)
–
Runtime fault (global state divergence)
Idiomatic compile (symbol/name mapping)
Idiomatic compile (symbol/name mapping)
Unidiomatic compile (array shape; intrinsics/types)
Runtime fault (C string NULL termination)
Unidiomatic compile (types/aliases)
Harness runtime (I/O/resource model mismatch)
Unidiomatic compile (types/aliases)
Harness runtime (buffer/length)
Unidiomatic compile (function-pointer
types/deps)
Harness compile (instrumentation bound)
Harness compile (struct converter/shape)
Runtime fault (size/capacity mismatch)
Harness compile (instrumentation bound)
Unidiomatic compile (function-pointer
types/deps)
Harness compile (struct converter/shape)
Unidiomatic compile (types/aliases)
Unidiomatic compile (C varargs/unstable
feature)
Idiomatic compile (symbol/name mapping)
Runtime fault (arithmetic underflow)
Unidiomatic compile (function-pointer
types/deps)
Unidiomatic compile (types/aliases)
Unidiomatic compile (types/aliases)
–
Harness runtime (I/O/resource model mismatch)
–
Harness runtime (converter/ownership)
Harness
compile
(lifetimes/struct
adapters)
Idiomatic compile (borrow/lifetime; symbol mapping)
Runtime fault (function-pointer nullability)
Unidiomatic compile (types/aliases)
–
Harness runtime (I/O/resource model mismatch)
Harness runtime (converter/ownership)
Idiomatic compile (borrow/lifetime)
–
–
–
Harness compile (type/name drift; API
mismatch)
Harness runtime (pointer/ref; length
units)

Sample

Unid.
(%)

Id. (%)

Failure reason

Category

totp

77.8%

–

Unidiomatic compile (types/aliases)

utf8

100.0% 30.8%

Anonymous C types that c2rust renamed cannot be fetched correctly as a
dependency; plus duplicate helpers (pack32/unpack64/hmac_sha1); compile fails.
NULL deref + unchecked indices; SIGSEGV in tests.

vec

100.0% 0.0%

Idiomatic rewrite uses a bounds-checked copy; out-of-range panic under
tests.

Runtime fault (NULL deref/out-ofbounds)
Runtime fault (boundary/indexing)

Table 14: CRust-Bench per-sample outcomes (function-level). Translation Status columns report per-sample
function-level success rates for unidiomatic (Unid.) and idiomatic (Id.) stages.

670

N

Examples of Prompts Used in
SACTOR

The following prompts are used to guide the LLM
in C-to-Rust translation and verification tasks. The
prompts may slightly vary to accommodate different translation task, as SACTOR leverages static
analysis to fetch the necessary information for the
LLM.
N.1 Unidiomatic Translation
Figure 11 shows the prompt for translating unidiomatic C code to Rust.
Translate the following C function to Rust . Try to
keep the ** equivalence ** as much as possible .
`libc ` will be included as the ** only ** dependency
you can use . To keep the equivalence , you can
use `unsafe ` if you want .
The function is :
```c
{ C_FUNCTION }
```

The function uses the following functions , which are
already translated as ( you should ** NOT **
include them in your translation , as the system
will automatically include them ):
``` rust
fn atoi ( str : * const c_char ) -> c_int ;
```

Figure 12: Unidiomatic Translation with Feedback
Prompt

```
You should ** NOT ** include them in your translation ,
as the system will automatically include them .

N.3

Idiomatic Translation

Figure 13 shows the prompt for translating unidiomatic Rust code to idiomatic Rust. Crown is used
to hint the LLM about the ownership, mutability,
and fatness of pointers.

The function uses the following functions , which are
already translated as ( you should ** NOT **
include them in your translation , as the system
will automatically include them ) :
``` rust
{ DEPENDENCIES }
```

Translate the following unidiomatic Rust function
into idiomatic Rust . Try to remove all the `
unsafe ` blocks and only use the safe Rust code
or use the `unsafe ` blocks only when necessary .
Before translating , analyze the unsafe blocks one by
one and how to convert them into safe Rust
code .
** libc may not be provided in the idiomatic code , so
try to avoid using libc functions and types ,
and avoid using `std :: ffi ` module .**
``` rust
{ RUST_FUNCTION }
```

Output the translated function into this format (
wrap with the following tags ):
---- FUNCTION ---``` rust
// Your translated function here
```
---- END FUNCTION -- --

Figure 11: Unidiomatic Translation Prompt

N.2 Unidiomatic Translation with Feedback
Figure 12 shows the prompt for translating unidiomatic C code to Rust with feedback from the
previous incorrect translation and error message.

// Specific for main function
The function is the `main ` function , which is the
entry point of the program . The function
signature should be : `pub fn main () -> () `.

```
You should ** NOT ** include them in your translation ,
as the system will automatically include them .

Lastly , the function is translated as :
``` rust
{ COUNTER_EXAMPLE }
```
It failed to compile with the following error
message :
```
{ ERROR_MESSAGE }
```
Analyzing the error messages , think about the
possible reasons , and try to avoid this error .

The function uses some of the following stdio file
descriptors : stdin . Which will be included as
``` rust
extern " C" {
static mut stdin : * mut libc :: FILE ;
}

```

The function uses some of the following stdio file
descriptors : stdin . Which will be included as
``` rust
extern "C" {
static mut stdin : * mut libc :: FILE ;
}

Output the translated function into this format (
wrap with the following tags ):
---- FUNCTION ---``` rust
// Your translated function here
```
---- END FUNCTION -- --

// Specific for main function
The function is the `main ` function , which is the
entry point of the program . The function
signature should be : `pub fn main () -> () `.
For ` return 0; ` , you can directly ` return ;` in Rust
or ignore it if it ' s the last statement .
For other return values , you can use `std :: process ::
exit () ` to return the value .
For `argc ` and `argv `, you can use `std :: env :: args ()
` to get the arguments .

Translate the following C function to Rust . Try to
keep the ** equivalence ** as much as possible .
`libc ` will be included as the ** only ** dependency
you can use . To keep the equivalence , you can
use `unsafe ` if you want .
The function is :
```c
{ C_FUNCTION }

For ` return 0; ` , you can directly ` return ;` in Rust
or ignore it if it 's the last statement .
For other return values , you can use `std :: process ::
exit () ` to return the value .
For `argc ` and `argv `, you can use `std :: env :: args ()
` to get the arguments .

" Crown " is a pointer analysis tool that can help to
identify the ownership , mutability and fatness
of pointers . Following are the possible
annotations for pointers :
```
fatness :
- `Ptr `: Single pointer
- `Arr `: Pointer is an array
mutability :
- `Mut `: Mutable pointer
- `Imm `: Immutable pointer
ownership :
- `Owning `: Owns the pointer
- ` Transient `: Not owns the pointer
````
The following is the output of Crown for this
function :
```
{ CROWN_RESULT }
```
Analyze the Crown output firstly , then translate the
pointers in function arguments and return

671

values with the help of the Crown output .
Try to avoid using pointers in the function
arguments and return values if possible .
Output the translated function into this format (
wrap with the following tags ):
---- FUNCTION ---``` rust
// Your translated function here
```
---- END FUNCTION -- -Also output a minimal JSON spec that maps the
unidiomatic Rust layout to the idiomatic Rust
for the function arguments and return value .
Full JSON Schema for the SPEC ( do not output the
schema ; output only an instance that conforms
to it ):
``` json
{ _schema_text }
```
---- SPEC - --``` json
{{
" function_name ": "{ function . name }" ,
" fields ": [
{{
" u_field ": {{
" name ": "..." ,
" type ": "..." ,
" shape ": " scalar " | {{" ptr ": {{" kind ": "
slice | cstring | ref " , " len_from ": "?" , " len_const
": 1}}}}
}} ,
" i_field ": {{
" name ": "..." ,
" type ": "..."
}}
}}
]
}}
```
---- END SPEC -- -Few - shot examples ( each with unidiomatic Rust
signature , idiomatic Rust signature , and the
SPEC ) :
Example F1 ( slice arg ):
Unidiomatic Rust :
``` rust
pub unsafe extern "C" fn sum ( xs : * const i32 , n:
usize ) -> i32 ;
```
Idiomatic Rust :
``` rust
pub fn sum ( xs : &[ i32 ]) -> i32 ;
```
---- SPEC - --``` json
{{
" function_name ": " sum ",
" fields ": [
{{ " u_field ": {{" name ": " xs ", " type ": "* const
i32 ", " shape ": {{ " ptr ": {{ " kind ": " slice ", "
len_from ": "n" }} }} }} ,
" i_field ": {{" name ": " xs ", " type ": "&[ i32 ]"
}} }} ,
{{ " u_field ": {{" name ": "n" , " type ": " usize ",
" shape ": " scalar " }} ,
" i_field ": {{" name ": " xs . len ", " type ": " usize
" }} }}
]
}}
```
---- END SPEC -- -Example F2 ( ref out ):
Unidiomatic Rust :
``` rust
pub unsafe extern "C" fn get_value ( out_value : * mut
i32 );
```
Idiomatic Rust :
``` rust
pub fn get_value () -> i32 ;
```
---- SPEC - --``` json
{{
" function_name ": " get_value ",
" fields ": [
{{ " u_field ": {{" name ": " out_value ", " type ": "*
mut i32 " , " shape ": {{ " ptr ": {{ " kind ": " ref "
}} }} }} ,
" i_field ": {{" name ": " ret ", " type ": " i32 " }}
}}
]
}}
```
---- END SPEC -- --

Example F3 ( nullable cstring maps to Option ):
Unidiomatic Rust :
``` rust
pub unsafe extern "C" fn set_name ( name : * const libc
:: c_char );
```
Idiomatic Rust :
``` rust
pub fn set_name ( name : Option <& str >) ;
```
---- SPEC ---``` json
{{
" function_name ": " set_name ",
" fields ": [
{{ " u_field ": {{" name ": " name ", " type ": "* const
c_char ", " shape ": {{ " ptr ": {{ " kind ": " cstring
", " null ": " nullable " }} }} }} ,
" i_field ": {{" name ": " name ", " type ": " Option
<& str >" }} }}
]
}}
```
---- END SPEC ----

Figure 13: Idiomatic Translation Prompt

N.4

Idiomatic Verification

Idiomatic verification is the process of verifying the
correctness of the translated idiomatic Rust code by
generating a test harness. The prompt for idiomatic
verification is shown in Figure 14.
We have an initial spec - driven harness with TODOs .
Finish all TODOs and ensure it compiles .
Idiomatic signature :
``` rust
pub fn compute_idiomatic (
x: i32 ,
name : & str ,
data : &[ u8 ] ,
meta : HashMap < String , String >,
) -> i32 ;;
```
Unidiomatic signature :
``` rust
pub unsafe extern "C" fn compute (x: i32 , name : *
const libc :: c_char , data : * const u8 , len : usize
, meta : * const libc :: c_char ) -> i32 ;;
```
Current harness :
``` rust
pub unsafe extern "C" fn compute (x: i32 , name : *
const libc :: c_char , data : * const u8 , len : usize
, meta : * const libc :: c_char ) -> i32
{
// Arg 'name ': borrowed C string at name
let name_str = if ! name . is_null () {
unsafe { std :: ffi :: CStr :: from_ptr ( name ) }.
to_string_lossy () . into_owned ()
} else {
String :: new ()
};
// Arg 'data ': slice from data with len len as
usize
let data_len = len as usize ;
let data_len_non_null = if data . is_null () { 0 }
else { data_len };
let data : &[ u8 ] = if data_len_non_null == 0 {
&[]
} else {
unsafe { std :: slice :: from_raw_parts ( data as
* const u8 , data_len_non_null ) }
};
// TODO : param meta of type HashMap < String ,
String >: unsupported mapping
let __ret = compute_idiomatic (x , & name_str , data
, /* TODO param meta */) ;
return __ret ;
}
```
Output only the final function in this format :
---- FUNCTION ---``` rust
// Your translated function here
```
---- END FUNCTION -- --

Figure 14: Idiomatic Verification Prompt

672

N.5 Failure Reason Analysis
Figure 15 shows the prompt for analyzing the reasons for the failure of the translation.
Given the following C code :
```c
{ original_code }
```
The following code is generated by a tool that
translates C code to Rust code . The tool has a
bug that causes it to generate incorrect Rust
code . The bug is related to the following error
message :
``` json
{ json_data }
```
Please analyze the error message and provide a
reason why the tool generated incorrect Rust
code .
1. Append a new reason to the list of reasons .
2. Select a reason from the list of reasons that
best describes the error message .
Please provide a reason why the tool generated
incorrect Rust code ** FUNDAMENTALLY **.
List of reasons :
{ all_current_reasons }
Please provide the analysis output in the following
format :
``` json
{
" action ": " append ", // or " select " to select a
reason from the list of reasons
" reason ": " Format string differences between C
and Rust ", // the reason for the error message ,
if action is " append "
" selection ": 1 // the index of the reason from
the list of reasons , if action is " select "
// " reason " and " selection " are mutually
exclusive , you should only provide one of them
}
```
Please ** make sure ** to provide a general reason
that can be applied to multiple cases , not a
specific reason that only applies to the
current case .
Please provide a reason why the tool generated
incorrect Rust code ** FUNDAMENTALLY ** ( NOTE
that the reason of first failure is always NOT
the fundamental reason ) .

Figure 15: Failure Reason Analysis Prompt

673

