         A First Look at Third-Party Service
        Dependencies of Web Services in Africa

                                    Anonymous

                                 No Institute Given


      Abstract. Third-party dependencies expose websites to shared risks
      and cascading failures. The dependencies impact African websites as well
      e.g., Afrihost outage in 2022 [19]. While the prevalence of third-party de-
      pendencies have been studied for the globally popular websites, Africa is
      largely underrepresented in those studies. Hence, in this work, we ana-
      lyze the prevalence of third-party infrastructure dependencies in Africa-
      centric websites from 4 African vantage points. We consider websites
      that fall in one of the four categories: Africa-visited (popular in Africa)
      Africa-hosted (sites hosted in Africa), and Africa-dominant (sites tar-
      geted towards users in Africa), and Africa-operated (websites operated
      in Africa). Our key findings are: 1) 93% of the Africa-visited websites
      critically depend on a third-party DNS, CDN or CA. In perspective, US-
      visited websites are up to 25% less critically dependent. 2) 97% of Africa-
      dominant, 96% of Africa-hosted , and 95% of Africa-operated websites are
      critically dependent on a third-party DNS, CDN, or CA provider. 3) The
      use of third-party services is concentrated where only 3 providers can
      affect 60% of the Africa-centric websites. Our findings have key implica-
      tions for the present usage and recommendations for the future evolution
      of Internet in Africa.


1   Introduction
The websites we use everyday offload critical services such as name resolution
(DNS), content distribution (CDN) and certificate issuance/revocation (CA) to
third parties for key services e.g., AWS Route 53 for DNS, Akamai for CDN,
DigiCert for CA. As a result, the availability and security of these websites,
and thus of our data and operations, depend on the availability and security of
those third parties. The effects of such dependencies are routinely observed in
the Internet today. For example, a dependency on DNS, resulted into multiple
websites (more than 100K) taken down for several hours together with their DNS
provider (Dyn) which was attacked by a Mirai DDoS attack [26]. Similarly, users
of multiple websites lost access to their accounts for weeks, because a single CA
issued an incorrect revocation of a certificate in 2016 [24].
    To gauge the security risk that such dependencies entail, one needs to un-
derstand the prevalence of third-party dependencies across the websites that are
important for users all over the world. While such studies exist [29, 27, 28, 47, 53,
34], their target users/websites are particularly skewed towards North America
and Europe.
2       Anonymous

    The geographical bias of the datasets used in previous studies of third-party
dependencies creates a critical gap as distinct regions exhibit unique characteris-
tics, needs and opportunities that are effectively ignored. Naively assuming that
observations generalize across regions, entails risks as it underestimates the prac-
ticality of certain attacks and creates false assurance of the security of critical
region-specific websites (e.g., those related to government or health insurance
in those countries). This is also recognized by the Internet Society’s Measuring
Internet Resilience in Africa (MIRA) project [46].
    To contribute towards bridging this gap, in this paper we study third-party
dependencies of websites in Africa. Our study is motivated by the increasing
number of DDoS attacks in Africa[4], the increasing popularity of third-party
services, the low cyber readiness of African users and businesses [40]. These
are exemplified by various recent attacks. For example, in July 2022, Afrihost,
one of the major hosting and DNS providers in South Africa, went down for
30 hours due to load shedding which caused a cooling equipment failure in one
of Afrihost’s datacenters. Moreover, the relative scarcity of local providers urge
website operators to rely often solely on global service providers such as Amazon,
Akamai, Cloudflare whose outages also affect users, and websites from Africa.
    Beyond raising awareness on the unique security challenges that African users
and operators face, our study contributes to the resilience of the Internet in
Africa. Concretely, we aim to provide stakeholders, and operators with more tai-
lored insights, to help them avoid common pitfalls in using third-party depen-
dencies, understand their attack surface, and optimize their defense strategies
towards the most pressing needs.
    To investigate third-party dependencies in African websites, we focus on web-
sites which are Africa-centric, i.e., websites that are popular in Africa (Africa-
visited ), or predominantly targeted towards Africans (Africa-dominant), or are
hosted in Africa (Africa-hosted ), or are operated in Africa (Africa-operated ).
We investigate their dependencies using four measurement vantage points in
Africa (Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Kenya). Specifically, our measurement
study focuses on answering the following questions: First, how prevalent are
third-party dependencies in the Africa-visited , Africa-hosted , Africa-operated
and Africa-dominant websites? Second, how centralized are third-party depen-
dencies among providers used in Africa-visited , Africa-hosted , Africa-operated
and Africa-dominant websites? Finally, how does the dependence on third par-
ties in Africa compare to the US?
    Our main findings are as follows: First, third-party dependencies are 5%
to 12% more prevalent in Africa as compared to the US. Moreover, for more
popular sites, this gap increases up to 25%. Second, 93% of Africa-visited , 97%
of Africa-dominant, 96% of Africa-hosted , and 95% of Africa-operated websites
are critically dependent on a third-party DNS, CDN, or CA provider. Second,
all vantage points in Africa are equally critically dependent on third-party DNS,
CDN and CA providers. Third, the top-three DNS, CDN or CA providers for
Africa-centric websites serve as sole providers up to 60% of the websites. Finally,
the top providers for Africa-visited websites are mainly global providers (e.g.,
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa     3

Cloudflare, Amazon etc.). However, for the hosted, dominant and operated sets,
we observe some local providers among the top providers.
    Our findings have key implications for the present usage and recommenda-
tions for the future evolution of Internet in Africa. The high degree of cen-
tralization of providers and third-party dependencies make African websites
vulnerable to various exploits, and availability attacks. While these dependen-
cies mirror trends in other countries such as the US, there are some unique
threats. First, Africa has unreliable Internet infrastructure which makes outages
more commonplace [45, 15, 42] as observed in the Afrihost outage due to load-
shedding [19]. Secondly, African website operators and service providers lack
cyber expertise [40], due to which it can take longer for them to recover from an
outage. By studying this issue in the African context, we highlight the need to
build more resilient Internet infrastructure in Africa.


2     Preliminaries

Before we formally define our measurement goals, we define a set of actionable
metrics that we use throughout our analysis. These metrics have been taken
from Kashaf et al. [29]. We also articulate several research questions, that we
aim to answer in this study.


2.1   Dependency Metrics




                                        DNS
                 example-website.com

                                       CDN


Fig. 1: example-website.com has a dependency on CloudFlare DNS and Dyn
DNS. Moreover, it has a dependency on KeyCDN for CDN services. Since, it uses
a single CDN provider, it has a critical dependency on KeyCDN. However, it is
redundantly provisioned with respect to DNS as it is using two DNS providers.


   When a website uses another entity for a particular service (e.g., DNS), we
say that the website has a third-party dependency on that service provider.
We illustrate this in Figure 1. Here, example-website.com uses an entity other
than itself for a particular service (here DNS and CDN). Therefore, example-
website.com has a third party DNS dependency on Cloudflare and Dyn DNS,
and it has a third party CDN dependency on KeyCDN. example-website.com in
Figure 1 uses only a single CDN provider. Hence, it has a critical dependency
4       Anonymous

on KeyCDN. However, since example-website.com uses two DNS providers, it is
redundantly provisioned with respect to DNS and does not have a critical
dependency on Cloudflare or Dyn DNS.
    For DNS and CDN, we measure critical dependency by analyzing if a given
website is redundantly provisioned or not. However, in case of CA dependency,
a website is critically dependent on a CA if it does not support OCSP stapling.
If OCSP stapling is enabled, the user accessing a given website does not have to
contact the OCSP server to check the website certificate for revocation. Instead,
an OCSP response signed by the certificate authority comes stapled from the
website server itself, thus removing the dependence on OCSP server [10].
Concentration of a service provider The number of websites dependent on
a service provider gives the concentration of that service provider.
Impact of a service provider This gives the number of websites critically
dependent on a service provider.


2.2   Taxonomy of Websites

To systematically study third-party service dependencies in Africa-centric web
services, we create a taxonomy of websites based on (i) who are their users; (ii)
who operates them; (iii) where are they hosted; and (iv) who are their dominant
users. In this section, we define those classes precisely at the granularity of a
country.
Users of a website are the people who visit the website. A website may be
used primarily by people from a single country (geolocation) or from multiple
countries. We define uC as the Internet user, who is geographically located in
country C.
Owner/Operator of a website is the entity or person that builds and manages
the website, takes the security decisions, defines its privacy policy, etc. A website
may have operators in a single country or in multiple countries. We define oC as
the a website operator in country C.
Host of a website is the country (or countries) in which the the servers running
the website are. We use the notation hC to specify that the hosting location of
the website is in the country C.
Dominant country for a website is the country which has the majority traffic
share for that website. We use dC to denote the dominant country for a website.
    Using this taxonomy, we define the following website sets:
Country-visited websites WCvisited : This set comprises of websites which are
used/visited by users uC of country C. In other words, this includes websites
which are popular in country C.
Country-dominant websites WCdominant : This set comprises of websites that
have the majority of their users in country C. It may be operated or hosted by a
single or multiple countries. This set contains websites which are specifically tar-
geted towards a particular demographic. Studying this set is important because
it includes websites that may not be very popular but are essential for African
users such as government websites, hospital websites.
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa           5

      Who uses it? Who operates it? Who hosts it? Who is it for? Website sets
           uC               -                -              -            WCvisited
            -              hC                -              -            WChosted
            -               -               oC              -           WCoperated
            -               -                -             dC           WCdominant

Table 1: We consider three sets (categories) of websites for our analysis which
differ in the location of their users (usage), the location in which they are hosted
(hosting) and their audience.




Fig. 2: The country-dominant, country-hosted, country-operated website sets overlap
with each other, and they are all subsets of the country-visited set.


Country-operated websites WCoperated : This set comprises of websites op-
erated by country C. These websites may have users from single or multiple
countries and may be hosted by a single or multiple countries. Studying this set
facilitates investigating the implications of third-party dependencies from the
perspective of African website operators.
Country-hosted websites WChosted : This set comprises of websites that are
hosted in country C. Each of these websites may have users from single or mul-
tiple countries and may be operated in a single or multiple countries. Studying
this set is important because it often contains sensitive websites which need to
remain local such as banking websites, hospital websites etc.

2.3   Research Questions
Given these definitions, we now define our main research questions that we an-
swer in this paper.
 – How prevalent are third-party critical CDN, DNS and CA dependencies in
   Africa-centric websites?
 – How centralized are third-party dependencies among providers that serve
   Africa-centric websites?
 – How does the state of third-party service dependencies in African countries
   compare to the US?
6      Anonymous

3   Dataset
We perform measurements from four vantage points through VPN servers lo-
cated in Kenya (KE), Rwanda (RW), South Africa (ZA) and Nigeria (NG). We
choose these vantage points as they provide us with a vantage point in each
of South, East, West and Central Africa. We prepare country specific website
sets for each country, and then use the same country as vantage point to carry
out measurements. For example, we study NG-visited websites from NG. This
section explains our methodology for collecting websites for each country and
set of interest. We summarize our sets in Table 2.
    One could looking at all existing websites that belong in the categories we
defined in Section 2. To make the sets more tractable and focus on the most
impactful websites we start from the websites that are popular in each African
country which constitutes the country-visited set WCvisited . This helps in iden-
tifying websites which can impact the African Internet users, website operators
and the Internet economy of African countries the most.
    We use the Chrome User Experience Report (CrUX) dataset [25] to get
the top 10K popular websites in each selected African country. This dataset
is curated monthly by aggregating browsing data of Chrome and Chromium
users who have opted in for browser history and usage statistic reporting. These
browsers constitute for more than 80% traffic in our countries of interest [54].
CrUX is ranked by the number of completed pageloads.
    CrUX dataset is aggregated by web origin (e.g., https://google.com). For
DNS analysis, we need domain names, and using web origin may result in mul-
tiple entries for the same domain. Hence, we normalize this dataset by grouping
web origins by domain names, and choose the smallest rank value as the rank
for each domain. This same normalization technique has been previously done
in [52] and is shown to be accurate at capturing popular websites. [52] also
shows that CrUX is better at capturing popular websites than other top lists as
defined by visit and visitor metrics. In addition, most top lists only give pop-
ular websites in the world. However, for this analysis we need regional popular
websites, and found that CrUX dataset is a good source for that. We build our
websites sets based on the CrUX dataset, and the definition of website sets can
be found in Table 1.
Dataset for country-visited websites: We use the CrUX dataset of top
10K websites, for NG, RW, KE, ZA and US. We normalize this dataset for each
country, by grouping web origins by domain names as mentioned above. This
gives us the country-visited WCvisited dataset for each country.
    The country-dominant, country-hosted and country-operated website sets are
built from this dataset with the relationship shown in Figure 2 by the following
rules:
Dataset for country-dominant websites: As defined in Section 2, country-
dominant websites are made for users located in corresponding African country.
A naive approach to collecting such a list is to filter websites by their ccTLD[2].
However, this approach would result in many false positives because some domain
registrar give .ccTLD domains to anyone. For example, parse.ly has the Libyan
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa       7

                          dominant      hosted     operated   visited
            Kenya         1486          274        199        8433
            Nigeria       1675          77         143        8440
            Rwanda        698           208        20         7867
            South-Africa 3000           1558       246        8434
            US            -             -          -          7854

                 Table 2: Datasets sizes with respect to country



ccTLD, but the website is not made for or visited by Libyan users 1 . Therefore,
we combine multiple heuristics to collect the country-dominant websites. Con-
cretely, a website belongs to country-dominant if it belongs to country-visited
set which is the top 10K visited websites and satisfies one of three requirements.
First, we pick websites with African ccTLDs. Observe that this filtering is differ-
ent from the previous heuristic as we require that the website is popular in that
country as well. Second, the website hostname contains Africa or the name of
an African country. Again, while this heuristic would alone cause false positives
e.g.,ancient-egypt.org2 intersecting it with the popular sites in Africa consid-
erably decreases those cases. Finally, the website contains the phone number of
that country. To conclude, we define country-dominant websites Wdom−af r as:

              WCdominant =(WCccT LD ∪ WCsubstr ∪ WCphone ) ∩ WCvisited

Dataset for country-hosted websites: To find websites hosted in an African
country, we perform an IP geolocation lookup using the Maxmind GeoLite
database [39], and the ipinfo.io [1] database for IPs missing in the maxmind
db. Instead of performing IP geolocation lookup on all existing websites, here
also we only look at websites which are hosted in corresponding country, and
are also popular in it i.e., are in the WCvisited set.

Dataset for country-operated websites: To find websites operated in a given
country, we look at the privacy policy and terms and conditions of websites to
identify the country of interest. For example, in murukali.com, their terms and
conditions page mentions, "These Terms of Service and any separate agreements
whereby we provide you Services shall be governed by and construed in accor-
dance with the laws of Rwanda." We use python geograpy library [49] to extract
geolocation mentions in the privacy policy or terms. We include only those web-
sites for which we get only a single country name, to decrease the number of
false positives in classifying a website as being operated in a given country.
1
    https://www.similarweb.com/website/parse.ly/#geography
2
    https://www.similarweb.com/website/ancient-egypt.org/#geography
8       Anonymous

4   Methodology
We are interested in measuring the third-party dependencies of Africa-centric
websites on authoritative Domain Name Servers, Content Delivery Networks,
and Certificate Authorities for revocation information (OCSP servers and CRL
distribution points).
    To capture dependencies as observed by African users, we need to measure
from multiple locations in Africa. Yet, accessing servers in various locations
within Africa is challenging, due to the limited offered coverage from cloud ser-
vice providers. To address this challenge, we combine the limited cloud presence
with VPN services (PrivateVPN [48], ExpressVPN [23]) whose true location we
diligently verified. We perform our measurements from four vantage points in
Africa, scattered in East, West, South and Central Africa. Particularly, our van-
tage points are in South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya and Rwanda. For the South
Africa vantage point, we use AWS, while all others are VPNs. To verify the lo-
cation of the VPN server, we ping the server from different locations to identify
the location with the smallest ping using online services like ping.pe, we also
perform traceroute and we separately also reached out to the VPN provider to
confirm the location of the VPN.
DNS Measurements: Given a website, we find out, 1)If the website has a
dependency on a third-party DNS provider? If so, 2) Is the website critically de-
pendent on that DNS provider, or is it redundant? To find out the authoritative
name servers, we use dig [3] (Domain Information Groper) which is a command-
line tool to fetch the NS (nameserver) records which give the records for author-
itative nameservers of a given website. To identify third-party nameservers, we
follow the methodology documented in Kashaf et al. [29]. Particularly, we use
top-level domain (TLD) matching [33], subject alternate name (SAN) lists [5],
and start-of-authority (SOA) DNS record [12] to classify a nameserver as a third-
party. We get 12825 distinct (website, nameserver) pairs for KE-visited , 12287
pairs for NG-visited and 12792 pairs for RW-visited , and 14336 for ZA-visited
websites of which 3% remain uncategorized as third-party or private for ZA,
4% for RW, 3% for NG and 2% for KE, and 3% from US. Hence, we conserva-
tively exclude the websites involving them from our analysis. After identifying
the third-party nameservers, we need to check if a website is redundantly pro-
visioned. To do this, we group the nameservers of the websites by TLD, and
SOA records as documented in Kashaf et al.. Nameservers in the same group are
considered to belong to the same provider. We observe 1010 distinct nameservers
for KE, 1170 for NG, 1078 for RW and 980 for the ZA, and 1274 for US.
Certificate Revocation Measurements: Given a website, we are interested
in knowing, 1)If the website has a dependency on a third party CA provider? If
yes, 2) Is the website critically dependent on that CA, or has it enabled OCSP
Stapling? We extract the CRL distribution points (CDP) and OCSP server infor-
mation from the SSL certificate of the website. To fetch certificates, we first send
an SYN on TCP port 443 to see if the website supports HTTPS. If we receive a
Connection Refused error, then it means the website does not support HTTPS.
Next, we initiate an HTTPS connection with it and fetch the SSL certificates.
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa       9

In the NG-visited websites, 94.0% support HTTPS, 95.7% support HTTPS in
KE-visited , and 94.3% support HTTPS in the RW-visited , 95.2% in ZA-visited
and 94.6% in US-visited . We observed 22 distinct CAs for NG, 26 distinct CAs
RW, 24 distinct CAs for KE, 23 distinct CAs for ZA and 23 distinct CAs for
US. We classify the CAs as third party, again using TLD matching, SAN list
and SOA records [29].
    Certain private CAs issue certificates and provide revocation checking for
their own domains only, e.g., Microsoft, etc. Therefore, we use the same heuristics
as mentioned for DNS to classify whether OCSP servers and CDPs are private
or third parties as in [29]. Next, to see if a website has a critical dependency
on OCSP servers and CDPs, we check if it has enabled OCSP Stapling using
OpenSSL [58]. If enabled, the certificate’s revocation status comes stapled from
the webserver when a user visits the website, requiring no online revocation check
from the OCSP server. To measure OCSP stapling, we obtain the certificate for
each website using OpenSSL [58]. An OCSP response stapled with the certificate
implies support for OCSP stapling.
CDN Measurements: To find CDNs that a website uses, we look at CNAME
redirects for the internal resources of a webpage. If the website is using a CDN
for a particular resource, the CNAME of that resource will point to the CDN as
done by [29]. First, we render the landing page of the website using puppeteer [6],
and record the URL of all the resources retrieved by a website. Then we use TLD
matching and SAN lists to identify the internal resources [29]. Then we query
the CNAME for all internal resources of the webpage, and use CNAME-to-CDN
map from the prior work [29], which we verified and extended to include African
CDNs. Then we classify a CDN as private or third party by using the same TLD
matching, SAN Lists and SOA records as done in [29]. We find that 18.5%, 23.9%,
19.6%, 22.0%, and 40.4% use CDN for NG-visited , RW-visited ,KE-visited , ZA-
visited and US-visited . We observe 56 distinct CDNs for NG, 59 CDNs for RW,
59 CDNs for KE, 55 CDNs for ZA and 60 CDNs for US.


4.1   Limitations

 – Our analysis considers only four vantage points in Africa. It is possible that
   the dependencies in countries for which we do not have more vantage points
   vary greatly. While we accept this limitation, however, getting vantage points
   in some of African countries is extremely hard due to the lack of mature
   Internet infrastructure, including VPN server presence.
 – We only look at popular websites. While this may overlook certain websites,
   studying for all possible websites is not feasible. We argue that this is a
   reasonable compromise as popular websites will be the ones which impact
   African users, and businesses the most.
 – Our heuristics for Africa-dominant websites may have false positives and
   negatives. However, the correct way to find Africa-dominant websites would
   be to check the total traffic share of different countries for each website and
   then choose those that have the largest traffic share from Africa. We had to
10      Anonymous

   use this heuristics because the data for per country traffic share of a website
   is not available.
 – We also inherit the limitations of the Kashaf et al. [29] as we replicate their
   methodology.


5     Findings

In this section, we first analyze third-party dependencies in Africa-centric web-
sites, and use US as a baseline. Next, we analyze provider concentration to
identify single points of failure in the African web ecosystem.


5.1   Third-party dependencies



Observation 1: 93% of Africa-visited websites are critically dependent
on third party CAs, CDNs and DNS. In perspective, US-visited web-
sites are up to 25% less critically dependent.

    Figure 3 illustrates the portion of portion of US-visited ZA-visited , NG-
visited , RW-visited and KE-visited websites that are critically dependent or re-
dundantly provisioned as a function of the particular service and as measured by
vantage points that are in the corresponding region. Concretely, Figure 3a shows
the percentage of critically dependent websites on DNS in African countries, and
the US. We observe that for DNS, critical dependency in US-visited is 5% to 7%
less as compared to the African countries. Interestingly, when we look at more
popular websites (top 1K), this gap further increases (6% to 10%) as shown in
Figure 3a. This means that web users from US are comparatively less vulner-
able, especially if they are using particularly popular websites, as compared to
African users. This result is intuitive, as more popular websites in US (e.g., top
1K) care more about availability as compared to local African websites.
    Figure 3b illustrates the percentage of redundantly provisioned websites in
DNS. We observe that there is not much difference (2%) between US-visited
websites and Africa-visited websites. However, when we look at more popular
websites (top 1K), the gap increases by 5% to 7% from 2%. At the same time, we
find that the use of private DNS is only 3% to 4% higher in US-visited websites
(not shown) and becomes 2% to 5% when we look at more popular websites
(also not shown). This means that critical dependency in more popular US-
visited websites is reduced because of increase in redundancy instead of use of
Private DNS. However, for Africa-visited , there is not much significant increase
in redundancy for more popular websites, except South Africa.
    Figure 3c compares the critical CDN dependency in US-visited with Africa-
visited websites. Overall, we found that 22%, 18%, 23% and 19% websites use
a CDN in ZA-visited , NG-visited ,RW-visited and KE-visited websites, while in
US-visited , 40% websites use CDN. In the top 10K, critical CDN dependency in
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa                                                                                       11

                                   ZA     NG       RW    KE    US
                                      89.1 90.6             91.4 92.7                         100
                         100                             92.9 91.4 86.3                                              ZA        NG     RW    KE     US
                                   85.9 88.7




                                                                          Percentage of redundantly
 dependent websites (%)
  Percentage of critically                    79.7




                                                                            provisioned websites
                             80                                                                       80

                             60                                                                       60

                             40                                                                       40
                             20                                                                       20
                                                                                                               7.1 5.0 5.4 4.711.6         3.4 4.0 4.2 3.6 6.0
                              0
                                                                                                       0
                                         Top 1K               Top 10K
                                                                                                                     Top 1K                      Top 10K
                                                  Website Rank                                                                  Website Rank

                              (a) DNS critical dependency                                                      (b) DNS redundancy
                                    ZA     NG      RW    KE   US                                                ZA        NG        RW     KE     US
                             100                                                                      100
                                                                  79.9
 dependent websites (%)




                                                                          dependent websites (%)
 Percentage of critically




                                                                           Percentage of critically
                              80        73.7 75.2        76.6 79.9 78.4
                                   69.0                      75.3                                      80          65.8                       65.6
                                      65.0      61.2                                                                                       66.1     62.2
                                                                                                                60.8 60.4 62.6                   61.3 54.4
                              60                                                                       60
                                                                                                                                    40.3
                              40                                                                       40
                              20                                                                       20
                               0                                                                           0
                                         Top 1K               Top 10K                                                 Top 1K                Top 10K
                                                  Website Rank                                                                  Website Rank

                              (c) CDN critical dependency                                                  (d) CA critical dependency

Fig. 3: (a) Critical dependency in DNS for top 10K US-visited sites when measured
from a US vantage point is 5% to 7% less than the top 10K Africa-visited websites.
This gap in critical dependency increases to 6% to 10% in the more popular (top 1K)
websites. (b) Percentage of websites which are redundantly provisioned is slightly higher
(2%) in the US-visited websites as compared to the Africa-visited websites. However,
when we look at more popular websites (top 1K), for US-visited , the percentage of
redundantly provisioned websites is 5% to 7% higher than the Africa-visited websites.
(c) Critical dependency in CDN for top 10K US-visited sites is similar to the top 10K
Africa-visited websites. However, for more popular websites, US-visited sites are 4% to
15% less critically dependent than Africa-visited sites. (d) Critical dependency in CA
for top 10K US-visited sites when measured from a US vantage point is 7% to 12% less
than the top 10K Africa-visited websites. This gap in critical dependency increases to
20% to 25% in the more popular (top 1K) websites.



US-visited is comparable to the Africa-visited websites. We find the number of
redundantly provisioned websites is also similar (not shown here). When we look
at more popular websites (top 1K), the critical CDN dependency in US-visited
is 4% to 14% less than Africa-visited websites. The use of private CDN remains
negligible in US-visited and Africa-visited websites (not shown here). Moreover,
the percentage of redundantly provisioned websites in top 1K is 5% to 15%
higher for US-visited as compared to Africa-visited websites. So the reduced
critical dependency as we move towards more popular websites in US-visited
websites, is because of increase in redundancy.
12                                   Anonymous

                              ZA (redundancy)          NG (critical dep)     KE (redundancy)
                              ZA (critical dep)        RW(redundancy)        KE (critical dep)                                                Top 1K        Top 10K
                                                                                                                                   93 91
                              NG (redundancy)          RW (critical dep)                                             100                         94            95 94   9495     94
                                                                                                                                 86 89                       87 91            86




                                                                                                 dependent websites(%)
                                                                                                 Percentage of critically
                         100
Percentage of Websites (%)          3 4 4 4        3    2 2        2 1 2 1    3 1      2                                                       78      80
                                                                                                                            80
                                   93 91 91 93    94 4 96 94 95 94 96 97     95 94 95 95                                                              65
                             75                     80                                                                      60
                                                                                                                            40
                             50                                                                                             20

                             25                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                 ZA NG          ZA NG         ZA NG    ZA NG
                              0      Visited       Hosted Dominant Operated                                                        Visited        Hosted      Dominant Operated
                                                     Website Sets                                                                            Website Sets, Vantage Point

                                                         (a)                                                                                        (b)

Fig. 4: (a) Third-party critical DNS dependency is highly prevalent (more than 90%)
in Africa-centric websites when measured from all the four vantage points. In the case
of Nigeria, the critical dependency in the NG-hosted websites is less. However, NG-
hosted websites only constitutes 1% of the total websites for Nigeria in our dataset.
(b) Across all website sets, we found that as we move from more popular websites (top
1K) to less popular websites (top 10K), the percentage of critically dependent websites
increases. This means that more popular websites are more resilient in our African
vantage points.



    Figure 3d shows the percentage of websites critically dependent on CA in
the US-visited and Africa-visited websites. We find that the number of websites
that support HTTPS is similar in US-visited and Africa-visited websites (not
shown). Recall that for CAs, critical dependency is measured in terms of whether
a website supports OCSP stapling or not. We find that US-visited websites
are 6% to 12% less critically dependent on CAs compared to Africa-visited .
Moreover, as we move to more popular websites (top 1K), we find that the gap
in critical dependency between US-visited and Africa-visited websites further
increases to 20%-25%. This low adoption of OCSP stapling can be attributed
to low cyber readiness in Africa. Furthermore, in US there have been many
efforts to promote OCSP stapling, particularly by popular CDN providers such
as Cloudflare, Amazon Cloudfront and Akamai. Since the adoption of CDNs in
Africa-visited websites is low, this could explain the lower adoption of OCSP
stapling.


Observation 2: Critical DNS dependency in Africa-centric websites
is extremely prevalent (92% to 97%), leaving users highly exposed.
Third-party critical DNS dependencies are higher in more popular
websites compared to less popular ones.

   To further investigate the result of Figure 3a and Figure 3b, Figure 4a also
shows critical dependency and redundancy of websites in a third-party DNS
provider, but distinguishes them between visited, hosted, dominant and oper-
ated website sets. For the set of visited websites, the critical DNS dependency is
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa        13

very high 91% to 93% and stable across countries. This shows that users in Africa
from these countries are equally vulnerable to the side effects of DNS third-party
dependencies. If we look at the hosted websites, we find that NG-hosted websites
have less critical dependence compared to other African countries. Concretely,
the third-party DNS dependency is only 84% in NG-hosted websites. We find
that this is due to two key reasons. First, many websites belonging to Meta (e.g.,
facebook.com, freebasics.com, whatsapp.com etc.) are locally hosted in Nigera,
and these websites use private DNS. Indeed, we confirmed their hosting by ping-
ing them from Nigeria. Second, the NG-hosted sets contain only a small number
of websites 2 making the Meta associated domains statistically significant.
    For dominant website sets, we find that the critical dependency in all African
websites is very high, concretely 94% to 97%. In fact, the websites that predom-
inantly target African Internet users are more vulnerable than Africa-visited
websites, with a difference of 2% to 5%. There is almost negligible redundant
provisioning in this set. For operated websites, again the critical dependency is
94% to 95% with negligible redundant provisioning. This trend in general shows
that no matter where in Africa users are, or what they visit, they are highly
vulnerable to the side-effects of third-party DNS dependencies. Moreover, the
fact that the trend persists across all African countries that we studied shows
that the situation is dire for the entire continent. In fact, the countries for which
we have results have relatively more developed Internet infrastructure.
    Figure 4b shows the critical dependency for the top 1K and top 10K websites
for ZA and NG. In general, we observe that as we move towards more popular
websites (top 1K), the critical dependency decreases across all website sets for
both ZA and NG. This is partly because of increase in the number of websites
using Private DNS (not shown). For example, for ZA, third-party dependency
decreases by 4% for ZA-visited , and ZA-dominant. For ZA-hosted it decreases
by 8%, while for ZA-operated it remains the same. In addition to the increase in
private DNS, we also observe an increase in redundantly provisioned websites.
For example, in the case of ZA, redundantly provisioned websites increase from
up to 4% in top 10K, to 6%-12% in the top 1K. We observe similar trend in
NG, KE and RW. While the increase in redundancy for more popular websites
is encouraging, it is still far from ideal. Even for more popular websites, third-
party dependencies are highly prevalent. Across different website sets, we see
more encouraging trends. For example, the hosted websites in the top 1K are
far less critically dependent than the other website sets. However, this trend
is only for ZA and NG and does not appear in KE and RW where it is more
similar to the other sets. In NG, this decrease in critical dependence is primarily
because of the use of Private DNS. For ZA, however, this is because some of the
websites using global providers are using multiple providers, and also because all
the websites using TENET South Africa as DNS, are redundantly provisioned.


Observation 3: Among the websites that use CDN, critical dependency
is prevalent (75% to 80%); although less compared to DNS. Third-
party critical dependencies in CDN are higher in more popular web-
14                                      Anonymous


                        100               ZA      NG          RW       KE                                                                       ZA (redundancy)                 NG (critical dep)           KE (redundancy)
                                                                                                                                                ZA (critical dep)               RW(redundancy)              KE (critical dep)
Percentage of Websites (%)   80                                                                                                                 NG (redundancy)                 RW (critical dep)
                                                                                                                                           100       22 24 18 19      16                   13 15 6 12       13        100 13
                                                                                                                                                                                   10 87 90 88              87 33




                                                                                                         Percentage of websites
                             60                                                                                                                80                     83        50             84                         87




                                                                                                            that use CDN (%)
                                                                                                                                                     77 75 80 80                   76
                                                                                                                                                                            8                                    67
                             40                                                                                                                60                          58
                                       22.0 23.9        15.6                             24.8                                                                                   50
                             20          18.5 19.6    14.9 10.6 14.7                         15.0                                              40
                                                                    6.8 6.7                8.4 7.5
                                                                       4.4                                                                     20
                              0                            1.0
                                        Visited         Hosted    Dominant               Operated                                               0        Visited       Hosted Dominant Operated
                                                           Website Sets                                                                                                  Website Sets
                                                              (a)                                                                                                               (b)

Fig. 5: (a) The percentage of websites that use CDN is less in the specialized sets such
as hosted, dominant and operated as compared to the visited set except for ZA. (b)
Critical dependency on CDNs for Africa-centric websites is less prevalent as compared
to critical DNS dependency. For the dominant website set, this dependency is much
higher.

                                                     Top 1K         Top 10K                                                                                      ZA              NG               RW                  KE
                              100
                                                                              87                                                                         94                                                  98 99 95 99
    dependent websites (%)




                                                                                    84      87 87
     Percentage of critically




                                                           83               79                                               100                    95        94 96   92                  93 95        93
                                  80 6977 75             73
                                                                                                             Percentage of Websites (%)




                                                                                   68                                                                                      86        83           82
                                         65
                                                                  58                              6367                                    80
                                  60                            50
                                  40                                                                                                      60                                    58

                                  20                                                                                                      40

                                   0                                                                                                      20
                                         ZA NG           ZA NG              ZA NG               ZA NG
                                                                                                                                           0
                                            Visited           Hosted         Dominant Operated                                                       Visited          Hosted              Dominant          Operated
                                                       Website Sets, Vantage Points                                                                                             Website Sets

                                                              (a)                                                                                                               (b)

Fig. 6: (a) Critical CDN dependency is lower for more popular websites, as compared
to less popular websites. (b) Support for HTTPS is very high in Africa-centric websites,
with the exception of hosted website sets.



sites compared to less popular ones.

    Figure 5b shows the critical dependency and redundancy in websites that
use CDN for different website sets. Here, the sum of critical dependency and
redundancy gives the total third-party dependency. The number of websites that
actually use a CDN in each set is shown in Figure 5a. In the visited sites, 18.5%
to 23.9% use a CDN. In general, we observe a decrease in critical dependency
as compared to DNS. In case of visited websites, ZA-visited and NG-visited are
slightly less critically dependent and are slightly more redundantly provisioned
as compared to RW-visited and KE-visited websites. The use of Private CDN in
across all vantage points of the visited set is less than 1%, which is not surprising.
For the hosted set, NG-hosted has a higher percentage of websites with private
     A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa                                                                                                            15


                          ZA (stapling)                 NG (critical dep)            KE (stapling)                          100             Top 1K        Top 10K




                                                                                                         dependent websites (%)
                          ZA (critical dep)             RW (stapling)                KE (critical dep)




                                                                                                          Percentage of critically
                          NG (stapling)                 RW (critical dep)                                                        80                          74                     77 75
                                                                                                                                           66 62                       71 69
                                                                                                                                                        67                               67
                     100                                                                                                                 61 63                       62
                                                                                                                                                      55                    58             57
 that support HTTPS(%)
                                                        22                                                                       60
Percentage of Websites

                                              33 38                29 37 37          25 29                                                                    49
                              33 34 38 37                                       42
                                                             51                              47 43
                         75                             78                           75 71                                       40
                              66 66           67                   71
                                      61 62        62                   63 63
                                                                                58
                         50                                  49                              53 57                               20

                                                                                                                                     0
                         25
                                                                                                                                         ZA KE         ZA KE          ZA KE         ZA KE
                          0     Visited        Hosted Dominant Operated                                                                    Visited        Hosted       Dominant Operated
                                                 Website Sets                                                                                        Website Sets, Vantage Points

                                                        (a)                                                                                                (b)

 Fig. 7: (a) Third party CA critical dependency is less prevalent in Africa-centric web-
 sites as compared to DNS dependency. Moreover, Kenya and Rwanda are less critically
 dependent in the hosted, dominant and operated sets as compared to South Africa and
 Nigeria. (b) Increase in popularity does not change the prevalence of critical CA depen-
 dencies in Africa-centric websites. In fact, for Kenya (and also Nigeria and Rwanda),
 critical CA dependency increases as we move towards more popular websites.




 CDN (100-58+8). This is also because of the websites affiliated with Meta use
 their own private CDN. We ignore the trend in RW-hosted websites, as only
 1% (2 websites) use CDN. KE-hosted websites are less critically dependent than
 KE-visited websites; this is also because of the private CDN using Meta domains,
 which becomes statistically significant because not many KE-hosted websites use
 CDN. For ZA-hosted websites, the critical dependence is higher than ZA-visited
 websites. It is unclear why this is the case as the CDN providers for both sets are
 similar. For the dominant website set, we find that all the countries have more
 critical dependences compared to the visited set. This means that websites which
 predominantly target African users are more vulnerable. However, as shown in
 Figure 5a, only a very small number of websites in the dominant website set use
 CDN.
     In the case of operated websites, the critical dependency is high for ZA-
 operated , KE-operated and RW-operated websites. We do not see a specific reason
 for which the NG-operated are less critically dependent. The adoption of CDN
 in the specialized sets of hosted, operated and dominant is very less to have any
 significant impact.
     Figure 6a shows the change in CDN critical dependency as we move from
 more popular (top 1K) websites to less popular websites (top 10K). For example,
 for ZA, the critical dependency for more popular websites is 8% to 10% lower
 than less popular websites (except the operated set). We observe a similar trend
 for RW and KE. This reduction in critical dependency for more popular websites
 is because more popular websites are more redundantly provisioned. The use of
 private CDN remains negligible for top 1K and top 10K websites (not shown
 here).
16     Anonymous




Observation 4: In the case of CA critical dependency, 40% to 75% of
the Africa-centric websites are critically dependent. For the hosted,
dominant and operated website sets, more popular websites are more
critically dependent.



    Figure 6b shows the number of websites that support HTTPS. HTTPS adop-
tion is in general very high in Africa-centric websites, which is encouraging.
However, there are a few notable exceptions. For example, HTTPS adoption is
low particulalry in the RW-hosted websites. It is also low for NG-hosted and
KE-hosted when compared to the visited websites. For RW, the RW-dominant
website set also has lower HTTPS adoption as compared to other countries.

    Figure 7a shows the percentage of websites that are critically dependent
among the total HTTPS supporting websites. In general, we find that critical
dependency on CAs is less compared to DNS. In the visited website set, 33% to
38% of the websites that support HTTPS, also support OCSP stapling. In case
of hosted websites, the trend remains largely similar for ZA and NG. For RW,
which already has only 58% HTTPS (Fig 6b supported websites in RW-hosted
website set, for the remaining websites, only 22% support OCSP stapling. This
means that RW-hosted websites leave the African users particularly vulnerable.
More alarming is the fact that more than half of these websites that are criti-
cally dependent are government websites ending with .gov.rw. For KE, 51% of
the KE-hosted websites support OCSP stapling, which is encouraging. OCSP
stapling support in Kenya is in general better for all website sets as compared to
other countries. In case of RW, OCSP stapling support is also good except for
the RW-hosted websites. OCSP Stapling support for ZA is not very encouraging
compared to other African countries. The ZA-operated and ZA-dominant web-
sites are particularly more vulnerable than the respective sets in other countries.
This means that ZA Internet users are vulnerable to side-effects of third-party
CA dependency. In the case of NG, the NG-operated websites are more vulner-
able compared to other website sets for NG.

    Figure 7b shows the change in critical dependency as we move from more
popular (top 1K) websites to less popular (top 10K) websites. For ZA, the criti-
cal CA dependency follows the same trend as in the case of DNS and CDN, where
more popular websites are less critically dependent (except for ZA-operated web-
sites. However, for Kenya, we observe that critical dependency actually increases
in more popular websites (top 1K). We observe a similar trend for NG and RW.
It is unclear why this is the case. Nevertheless, it is not encouraging and implies
that more popular hosted, dominant and operated websites are more vulnerable
to the side-effects of third-party CA dependency including outages, performance
degradation, etc.
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa        17

6   Provider Concentration
In this section, we first compare the concentration among providers for Africa-
visited websites and US-visited websites. Then we closely look at Africa, for
different website sets.


Observation 5: Concentration of providers in Africa-visited websites
is slightly higher than US-visited websites for DNS and CA.

    Figure 8 shows the fraction of websites for a given number of DNS, CDN and
CA providers. To compare the degree of concentration between Africa-visited and
US-visited websites, we plot the fraction of websites served by a given number of
providers. We label the number of providers that cover 85% of the websites for
each country. In general, we observe similar degree of concentration in US-visited
and Africa-visited websites. Figure 8a shows the fraction of websites served by
a given number of DNS providers. For ZA-visited and KE-visited websites, the
concentration is slightly higher than US-visited websites. In general, a single
DNS provider critically serves more than 40% of Africa-visited websites, while
in the case of US-visited , a single provider critically serves 34% of the websites.
Interestingly, the top 5 providers for US-visited , NG-visited , RW-visited and KE-
visited websites are the same global DNS providers. However, for ZA-visited ,
which includes local providers like Xneelo and Afrihost.
    Figure 8b shows the fraction of websites served by a given number of CDN
providers. In general, we observe a great degree of concentration in Africa-visited
as well as US-visited websites. Moreover, top CDN providers in Africa-visited
and US-visited websites are also same, and are all global providers. Figure 8c
shows the fraction of websites served by a given number of CA providers. In
general, CA providers are more concentrated for Africa-visited as compared to
US-visited websites. While the top providers in US-visited and Africa-visited
websites are similar. We observe some minor differences, like Let’s Encrypt
and Sectigo are more popular in Africa-visited websites as compared to US-
visited websites where Amazon is more popular. In general, DigiCert is the major
provider in all.
    Overall, we observe that African users are as vulnerable to the side effects of
third party dependencies as the US users. Note that this is not encouraging or
alleviating because Africa faces more challenges with respect to cyber security
expertise, reliable infrastructure etc., and hence single-points-of-failure in Africa
can have more severe consequences.


Observation 6: Approximately 60% of the total African-visited sites
are critically dependent on top 3 DNS, CDN or CA providers.
    Figure 9 shows the dependency graph for Africa-visited websites. The size
of a node is proportional to its indegree which is the number of websites de-
pendent on it. We also label the concentration and impact of each provider as
              18                   Anonymous




                                                (a) DNS                                                                                 (b) CDN                                                                               (c) CA

              Fig. 8: (a) Concentration of DNS providers in ZA-visited and KE-visited is slightly
              higher than RW-visited , NG-visited and US-visited websites. (b) Concentration of CDN
              providers in Africa-visited and US-visited websites is largely similar, with concentra-
              tion in US-visited websites being slightly higher. (c) Concentration of CA providers in
              Africa-visited websites is slightly higher than the US-visited websites.

                                                                                                                                                     KE-OCSP
                                                                                       Cloudflare                                                                        Amazon                                                                            Let’s Encrypt
                                                                                       C = 39, I = 39                                                                    CloudFront                    Let’s                                               C=32, I=20
                                                                                                                                                                         C=28, I=18                   Encrypt
                                                                                       Xneelo                                                              Fastly
                                                                                                                                                          Fastly         Fastly                                                                            Amazon
                                Cloudflare                                             C = 7, I = 7                          Amazon                                      C=12, I=8                                                                         C=7, I=3
                                                                                                                            AWS CloudFront
                                                                            Xneelo                                          Cloudfront                                                                                                          Amazon




                                                                                       GoDaddy                                                       Azure
                                                                                                                                                      Azure
                                                                                                                                                                         Azure                                 GlobalSign




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GlobalSign
                                                                                       C = 3, I = 3                                                                      C=7, I=4           Sectigo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C=3, I=1
                                                                                       Akamai                                                                            Akamai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sectigo
                      GoDaddy                                      Akamai




                                                                                       C = 2, I =2                                                                       C=20, I=11                                            DigiCert
                                                                                                                                                  Akamai
                                                                                                                                                  Akamai
                                                                                       AWS                                  Cloudflare
                                                                                                                               Cloudflare                                                                                                                  C=12, I=6
                                                                                                                                                                         Cloudflare
                                                AWS DNS                                DNS                                                                               C=11, I=7
                                                                                       C = 14, I =                                                                                                                                                         DigiCert
                                                                                       13                                                                                                                                                                  C=38, I=28

                                                (a) DNS                                                                                 (b) CDN                                                                                (c) CA

              Fig. 9: (a) Cloudflare and Amazon serve most of ZA-visited websites and have higher
              concentration and impact than other third-party DNS providers. (b) Amazon Cloud-
              front and Akamai have slightly higher concentration and impact as CDN providers
              for NG-visited . (c) DigiCert and Let’s Encrypt serve the largest number of KE-visited
              websites and have much higher concentration and impact than other CA providers.

                                                                                                                                                                          NG-OCSP-
                                                                                                                                                                          DOMINANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sectigo
ZA-DOMINANT                                                                     KE-HOSTED                                                                               Kenya                                                                                C=34, I=21
                                                                                     AWS DNS
                                   AWS DNS




                                                                                     C=6, I=6                                                                           Education Network                                   Sectigo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Google
                                                                                                                                                                        C=42, I=42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C=2, I=2
                                                          Dimension Data




                                                                                     Dimension Data
                                                                                     C=5, I=5                                                   Akamai
                                                                                                                                                                        Akamai
                                                                                                                                                                        C=10, I=9                     Google
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DigiCert
                                                                                     Cloudflare         Kenya Education                                                 MTN Business                                                                         C=24, I=18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DigiCert
                   Cloudflare
                                                                                     C=24, I=23            Network                                                      C=3, I=3
                                                          Xneelo                                                                                         MTN Business

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GoDaddy
                                                                                     Xneelo
                                                                                                                                                                        Safaricom                               Let’s                                        C=2, I=1
                                                                                     C=18, I=18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GoDaddy




                                                                                                                                                                        C=16, I=16                             Encrypt
                                                                                     Afrihost              Dimension Data
                                                                                                                                         Safaricom                                                                                                           Let’s Encrypt
                                                                                                                                                                        Dimension Data                                                                       C=34, I=20
                                     Afrihost


                                                                                     C=6, I=6
                                                                                                                                                                        C=5, I=4


                     (a) DNS Dominant                                                                                       (b) DNS Hosted                                                            (c) CA Dominant

              Fig. 10: (a) Africa local providers like Afrihost and Xneelo show up in the top 5 DNS
              providers for ZA-dominant websites. (b) Kenya Education Network provides DNS ser-
              vice for the largest number of KE-hosted websites. (c) Sectigo, Let’s Encrypt, and
              DigiCert provide CA services to almost the same number of NG-dominant websites.
              The three providers also have similar concentration and impact.
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa     19

described in Section 2 in terms of the percentage of websites. Figure 9a shows
the dependency graph for DNS providers for ZA-visited websites. We find that
Cloudflare alone critically serves 39% of the ZA-visited websites. In general, top
3 DNS providers critically server 59% of the websites. We observe the same
trends for other countries. For example, for RW-visited websites, top 3 DNS
providers critically serve 60% of the websites, 62% for NG-visited and 58% for
KE-visited websites. Moreover, the top 2 providers in all the countries are same,
namely Cloudflare and AWS DNS. For NG, we do not observe any local DNS
provider in the top 10 DNS providers. For Kenya, we observe the Kenya Edu-
cation Network (KENET) as one of the major DNS providers. For Rwanda, we
observe AOS.rw as one of the major local providers. For ZA, we observe many
local DNS providers in the top 10, namely Xneelo, Dimension Data, DiaMatrix
and Afrihost. For more popular websites (top 1K), the local DNS providers also
come in the top 3 provider, for example Kenya Education Network (KENET)
for top 1K KE-visited websites, AOS.rw for top 1K RW-visited websites, and
Dimension Data for top 1K NG-visited websites.
    In the case of CDN providers, Figure 9b shows the CDN dependency graph for
NG-visited websites. Top 3 providers in NG-visited websites critically serve 37%
of the websites that use CDN. We observe similar trends for other countries. For
example, for RW-visited websites, top 3 CDN providers critically serve 47% of
the websites, 39% for ZA-visited and 44% for KE-visited websites. Importantly,
none of the countries, have a local CDN provider that is used. Moreover, the top
CDN providers remain similar for all African countries, even for more popular
websites (top 1K).
    In the case of CA providers, Figure 9c shows the CA dependency graph for
KE-visited websites. Top 3 CA providers critically serve 54% of the KE-visited
websites. We observe similar trends for other countries. For example, for NG-
visited and ZA-visited websites, top 3 CDN providers critically serve 57% of the
websites that support HTTPS, and 51% for RW-visited websites that support
HTTPS. The top CA providers across all countries remain the same. There are
again no local providers.
    For the Africa-dominant websites, we observe that many local providers
dominate. For example, Figure 10a shows the DNS dependency graph for ZA-
dominant websites. Concentration of DNS providers is evident: top 3 DNS
providers critically server 47% of the ZA-dominant websites. More importantly,
the top providers include many local providers such as Afrihost, Xneelo, Di-
mension Data. We observe similar trends in DNS dependency of KE-dominant
websites, where we see KENET, safaricom, and Kenya Web Experts among the
top providers. Similarly, for RW, we see local providers such as AOS.rw, Kaneza,
Afriregister among the top providers. For NG-dominant, we do not see any DNS
local provider.
    Overall, there is concentration in Africa-dominant websites across all ser-
vices. For example, in top 3 DNS providers for Africa-dominant, concentration
remains between 48% to 58%. In case of CDN dependency, the concentration
of top 3 CDN providers for Africa-dominant websites remains around approxi-
20      Anonymous

mately 50% to 63%. Similarly, for CA dependency in Africa-dominant websites,
the concentration of top 3 CA providers for Africa-dominant websites remains
around approximately 52% to 62%. In case of CDN and CA dependency, we do
not see any local providers across all website sets. For example, Figure 10c shows
the CA dependency graph for NG-dominant websites.
    In the case of Africa-hosted websites as well, there is concentration across all
services. Figure 10b shows the DNS dependency graph for KE-hosted websites.
A large number 42% of these websites are served by Kenyan Education Network
(KENET), which is a not-for-profit service provider that primarily serves uni-
versities, research institutes, government websites and hospitals. Overall, top 3
DNS in Africa-hosted websites critically serve 42% for ZA, 44% for NG, 68% for
KE, and 91% for RW. For Rwanda, only a single DNS provider AOS.rw critically
serves 87% of the RW-hosted websites. In case of CDN, only 3 CDN providers
critically server 56% to 58% of Africa-hosted websites. Similarly, in case of CA,
only 3 CA providers critically serve 45% for KE, 49% for NG, 75% for RW
and 60% for ZA in the hosted websites. For Rwanda, Digicert alone serves 63%
of the RW-hosted websites, and for ZA, Let’s Encrypt alone serves 42% of the
ZA-hosted websites.
    In addition to this, the providers for Africa-operated websites are also highly
concentrated. For example, for NG-operated websites, Cloudflare servers as a
DNS provider for more than half of the websites. We observe similar trends in
CDN and CA providers and across countries.
    The high degree of concentration in the specialized sets also points towards
the vulnerability of African users to single-points-of-failure. Moreover, in the
existence of local providers in the specialized sets while encouraging also raises
questions about the resilience of these websites. The high concentration among
these local providers makes them single-points-of-failure, where their expertise
to defend against attacks and security incidents is not determined as compared
to global providers like Amazon.


7    Discussion

In light of our findings, now we present some implications and recommendations
for the African users, website operators, and service providers.
High Concentration: We find that there is a great degree of concentration in
the use of third-party DNS, CDNs, and CAs in the Africa-centric websites. This
high concentration creates even more single-points-of-failure which are already
prevalent in Africa [45]. Naturally, the third-party dependencies in combination
with the problematic intermittent connectivity [19, 45, 42] hinders the growth
of the digital economy in Africa, which would require reliable communication
among users and businesses. Hence, it is of paramount importance that the
websites are redundantly provisioned so that the outage of service providers does
not affect the websites and that the website operators are trained to effectively
handle outages and recover from failures.
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa        21

Highly prevalent third-party dependencies: While the concentration of
third-party dependency in Africa-centric websites risks their availability, it also
creates opportunities. Indeed, third-party providers have certain benefits such
as better quality of service, higher capacity, better security expertise, etc. which
small websites cannot afford on their own.
Sparse local providers: We find that on all Africa-centric websites, the num-
ber of local providers is very small, except for South Africa. This is problematic
in two ways. First, the lack of local providers questions the cyber-autonomy
of Africa-centric websites and reduces the diversity of providers available to the
Africa-centric websites. Indeed, governments could and have tried to rectify that.
For example, in Rwanda, with the help of Korea Telecom, the Government of
Rwanda created a service provider AOS.rw that serves many Rwanda-centric
websites. Even, not-for-profit initiatives like KENET, and South Africa TENET
which provide DNS, and web hosting services among others to websites often
belong to the government.Second, the use of non-local providers in some cases
can also increase the cost of Internet access in Africa, if it implies content load-
ing from outside Africa. Africa has one of the highest transit cost [50], hence
accessing remote content also makes Internet access expensive for Africans. In
our data, we find that most websites are hosted outside of Africa. Therefore,
there is an incentive for policy makers to promote local hosting of content so
that local providers and infrastructure are promoted.


8   Related Work

A huge body of work exists that performs dependency analysis. Some of those
analyze dependencies on country, or/and ISP. For example Simeonovski et al.
analyzes dependencies with respect to global scale threats where bad actors can
by a country, an autonomous system or a service provider like Email server,
DNS etc. [53]. Similarly, NSDMiner discovers network service dependencies such
as ISPs, from passively observed network traffic [43]. Zembruzki et al. [59] looks
at centralization among hosting providers. Hsiao et al. [27] analyzes the cyber-
autonomy of government websites of the G7 countries. Dell et al. [20] stud-
ies third-party DNS dependency using a passive DNS dataset. WebProphet
measures the internal backend infrastructure of websites for performance [36].
Simailrly, Ikran et al. studies dependency chains in third party web content [28]
    Many studies try to understand CDNs and hosting infrastructure [32, 55, 16,
7, 38]. These are complementary to our work. Other work analyzes the critical
paths to understand how content affects the page load time (e.g., [57]), or focuses
on the privacy implications of the tracking services (e.g., [51, 35, 31]). However,
our work is orthogonal as it focuses on the infrastructure services at a higher level
than individual websites. Kumar et al. [33] study HTTPS adoption and Podins
et al., [47] measure the implementation of Content Security Policy, among third-
party web content. Other efforts (e.g., [44, 41]) analyze third-party web content
for attacks. Ager et al. identifies and classifies content hosting and delivery in-
frastructures across the world [7]. Zmap [22] and Censys [21] present tools to
22      Anonymous

scan the Internet at scale to find vulnerabilities like heartbleed. Our focus on
web infrastructure is complementary to this work. Other work has analyzed the
use of TLS, the certificate ecosystem, and the use of Certificate Revocation in
the wild (e.g., [17, 56, 37, 18, 60, 30, 33]). These suggest potential attacks that
could be executed via the third party services we analyze here.
    There have been many efforts to understand the African Internet Ecosystem.
For exmaple, Akanho et al. measures the EDNS and TCP compliance in the
nameservers for African websites [8]. Chavula et al. analyzes the location of
cloud hosting providers in Africa for latency [14]. Calandro et al. analyzes the
hosting of African news websites [13] to determine the fraction of local content.
Similalry Brinkman et al. [11] discusses the interweaving connection in the
Internet due to dependencies and tries to seek what constitutes of "African
websites", which we provided definition for in our work. Arouns et al. looks at
the DNS landscape for African ccTLDs [9]. Our work is complementary to these
efforts as we also try to understand the resilience of Internet in Africa.


9    Conclusion
In this work, we analyze third-party DNS, CDN and CA dependencies in Africa-
centric websites in an effort to bridge the gap of previous works, and offer region-
specific actionable insights to African users and operators. Particularly, we study
the prevalence of third-party dependencies on Africa-visited , Africa-dominant,
Africa-operated and Africa-hosted websites. We find that Africa-centric websites
are highly vulnerable to the side-affects of third-party dependencies. In addition,
we find that there is a high degree of concentration in the use of third-party ser-
vice providers, meaning that a handful of providers serve a large portion of the
websites. Our findings have implications for the current usage and recommen-
dations for the future evolution of the Internet in Africa.


References
 1. Comprehensive IP address data, IP geolocation API and database - IPinfo.io.
    https://ipinfo.io/
 2. Country          domains:         A         comprehensive    ccTLD          list.
    https://www.ionos.com/digitalguide/domains/domain-extensions/cctlds-a-list-of-
    every-country-domain/
 3. dig: dns lookup utility. https://linux.die.net/man/1/dig
 4. Latest research shows DDoS attacks up by 300% in Africa since 2019.
    https://seacom.com/media-centre/latest-research-shows-ddos-attacks-300-africa-
    2019/
 5. SAN Certificates: Subject Alternative Name – Multi-Domain (SAN).
    https://www.digicert.com/faq/subject-alternative-name.htm
 6. Puppeteer. Puppeteer (May 2022)
 7. Ager, B., Mühlbauer, W., Smaragdakis, G., Uhlig, S.: Web content cartography.
    In: Proceedings of the 2011 ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement
    conference. pp. 585–600 (2011)
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa            23

 8. Akanho, Y., Alassane, M., Houngbadji, M., Phokeer, A.: African nameservers re-
    vealed: Characterizing dns authoritative nameservers. In: International Conference
    on e-Infrastructure and e-Services for Developing Countries. pp. 327–344. Springer
    (2020)
 9. Arouna, A., Phokeer, A., Elmokashfi, A.: A first look at the african’s cctlds tech-
    nical environment. In: International Conference on e-Infrastructure and e-Services
    for Developing Countries. pp. 305–326. Springer (2020)
10. Bock, H.: The problem with ocsp stapling and must staple and why certificate
    revocation is still broken, 2017. URL https://blog. hboeck. de/archives/886-The-
    Problem-with-OCSP-Stapling-and-Must-Staple-and-why-Certificate-Revocation-
    is-still-broken. html (2017)
11. Brinkman, I., Merolla, D.: Space, time, and culture on african/diaspora websites:
    a tangled web we weave. Journal of African Cultural Studies 32(1), 1–6 (2020)
12. Butkiewicz, M., Madhyastha, H.V., Sekar, V.: Understanding website complex-
    ity: measurements, metrics, and implications. In: Proceedings of the 2011 ACM
    SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement conference. pp. 313–328 (2011)
13. Calandro, E., Chavula, J., Phokeer, A.: Internet development in africa: a con-
    tent use, hosting and distribution perspective. In: International Conference on
    e-Infrastructure and e-Services for Developing Countries. pp. 131–141. Springer
    (2018)
14. Chavula, J., Phokeer, A., Calandro, E.: Performance barriers to cloud services
    in africa’s public sector: A latency perspective. In: International Conference on
    e-Infrastructure and e-Services for Developing Countries. pp. 152–163. Springer
    (2018)
15. Chege, K.G.: Measuring internet resilience in africa (Nov 2020),
    https://www.internetsociety.org/blog/2020/11/measuring-internet-resilience-
    in-africa/
16. Choffnes, D., Wang, J., et al.: Cdns meet cn an empirical study of cdn deployments
    in china. IEEE Access 5, 5292–5305 (2017)
17. Chung, T., Liu, Y., Choffnes, D., Levin, D., Maggs, B.M., Mislove, A., Wilson, C.:
    Measuring and applying invalid ssl certificates: The silent majority. In: Proceedings
    of the 2016 Internet Measurement Conference. pp. 527–541 (2016)
18. Chung, T., Lok, J., Chandrasekaran, B., Choffnes, D., Levin, D., Maggs, B.M.,
    Mislove, A., Rula, J., Sullivan, N., Wilson, C.: Is the web ready for ocsp must-
    staple? In: Proceedings of the Internet Measurement Conference 2018. pp. 105–118
    (2018)
19. Comment, D.S.: Load shedding in south africa causes cooling system failure at
    mtn data center (Jul 2022), https://www.datacenterdynamics.com/en/news/load-
    shedding-in-south-africa-causes-cooling-system-failure-at-mtn-data-center/
20. Dell’Amico, M., Bilge, L., Kayyoor, A., Efstathopoulos, P., Vervier, P.A.: Lean on
    me: Mining internet service dependencies from large-scale dns data. In: Proceedings
    of the 33rd Annual Computer Security Applications Conference. pp. 449–460 (2017)
21. Durumeric, Z., Adrian, D., Mirian, A., Bailey, M., Halderman, J.A.: A search en-
    gine backed by internet-wide scanning. In: Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGSAC
    Conference on Computer and Communications Security. pp. 542–553 (2015)
22. Durumeric, Z., Wustrow, E., Halderman, J.A.: Zmap: Fast internet-wide scanning
    and its security applications. In: Presented as part of the 22nd {USENIX} Security
    Symposium ({USENIX} Security 13). pp. 605–620 (2013)
23. ExpressVPN: High-speed, secure and anonymous vpn service | expressvpn (2016),
    https://www.expressvpn.com/
24      Anonymous

24. Globalsign certificate revocation issue. https://www.globalsign.com/en/status
    (October 13, 2016), accessed: May 23, 2020
25. Google: Chrome ux report, https://developer.chrome.com/docs/crux/
26. Hilton, S.: Dyn analysis summary of friday october 21 attack.
    http://dyn.com/blog/dyn-analysis-summary-of-friday-october-21-attack/          (Oct
    26, 2016), accessed: May 23, 2020
27. Hsiao, H.C., Kim, T.H.J., Ku, Y.M., Chang, C.M., Chen, H.F., Chen, Y.J., Wang,
    C.W., Jeng, W.: An investigation of cyber autonomy on government websites. In:
    The World Wide Web Conference. pp. 2814–2821 (2019)
28. Ikram, M., Masood, R., Tyson, G., Kaafar, M.A., Loizon, N., Ensafi, R.: The
    chain of implicit trust: An analysis of the web third-party resources loading. In:
    The World Wide Web Conference. pp. 2851–2857 (2019)
29. Kashaf, A., Sekar, V., Agarwal, Y.: Analyzing third party service dependencies in
    modern web services: Have we learned from the mirai-dyn incident? In: Proceedings
    of the ACM Internet Measurement Conference. pp. 634–647 (2020)
30. Kotzias, P., Razaghpanah, A., Amann, J., Paterson, K.G., Vallina-Rodriguez, N.,
    Caballero, J.: Coming of age: A longitudinal study of tls deployment. In: Proceed-
    ings of the Internet Measurement Conference 2018. pp. 415–428 (2018)
31. Krishnamurthy, B., Wills, C.: Privacy diffusion on the web: a longitudinal perspec-
    tive. In: Proceedings of the 18th international conference on World wide web. pp.
    541–550 (2009)
32. Krishnamurthy, B., Wills, C., Zhang, Y.: On the use and performance of content
    distribution networks. In: Proceedings of the 1st ACM SIGCOMM Workshop on
    Internet Measurement. pp. 169–182 (2001)
33. Kumar, D., Ma, Z., Durumeric, Z., Mirian, A., Mason, J., Halderman, J.A., Bailey,
    M.: Security challenges in an increasingly tangled web. In: Proceedings of the 26th
    International Conference on World Wide Web. pp. 677–684 (2017)
34. Kumar, R., Asif, S., Lee, E., Bustamante, F.E.: Third-party ser-
    vice    dependencies     and    centralization    around    the    world    (2021).
    https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2111.12253, https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.12253
35. Lerner, A., Simpson, A.K., Kohno, T., Roesner, F.: Internet jones and the raiders
    of the lost trackers: An archaeological study of web tracking from 1996 to 2016.
    In: 25th {USENIX} Security Symposium ({USENIX} Security 16) (2016)
36. Li, Z., Zhang, M., Zhu, Z., Chen, Y., Greenberg, A.G., Wang, Y.M.: Webprophet:
    Automating performance prediction for web services. In: NSDI. vol. 10, pp. 143–158
    (2010)
37. Liu, Y., Tome, W., Zhang, L., Choffnes, D., Levin, D., Maggs, B., Mislove, A.,
    Schulman, A., Wilson, C.: An end-to-end measurement of certificate revocation in
    the web’s pki. In: Proceedings of the 2015 Internet Measurement Conference. pp.
    183–196 (2015)
38. Matic, S., Tyson, G., Stringhini, G.: Pythia: a framework for the automated anal-
    ysis of web hosting environments. In: The World Wide Web Conference. pp. 3072–
    3078 (2019)
39. Maxmind, L.: Geoip country database
40. Moyo, A.: Africa found wanting on cyber crime preparedness.
    https://www.itweb.co.za/content/4r1lyMRoaVAqpmda (Dec 2019)
41. Mueller, T., Klotzsche, D., Herrmann, D., Federrath, H.: Dangers and prevalence
    of unprotected web fonts. In: 2019 International Conference on Software, Telecom-
    munications and Computer Networks (SoftCOM). pp. 1–5. IEEE (2019)
42. Mutiso, R., Hill, K.: Why hasn’t africa gone digital? Scientific American (Aug
    2020), https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/why-hasnt-africa-gone-digital/
A First Look at Third-Party Service Dependencies of Web Services in Africa            25

43. Natarajan, A., Ning, P., Liu, Y., Jajodia, S., Hutchinson, S.E.: NSDMiner: Auto-
    mated discovery of network service dependencies. IEEE (2012)
44. Nikiforakis, N., Invernizzi, L., Kapravelos, A., Van Acker, S., Joosen, W., Kruegel,
    C., Piessens, F., Vigna, G.: You are what you include: large-scale evaluation of
    remote javascript inclusions. In: Proceedings of the 2012 ACM conference on Com-
    puter and communications security. pp. 736–747 (2012)
45. Phokeer, A.: The gambia’s internet outage through an internet resilience lens
    (Jan 2022), https://pulse.internetsociety.org/blog/the-gambias-internet-outage-
    through-an-internet-resilience-lens
46. Phokeer, A., Chege, K., Chavula, J., Elmokashfi, A., Gueye, A.: Measuring internet
    resilience in africa (mira)
47. Podins, K., Lavrenovs, A.: Security implications of using third-party resources in
    the world wide web. In: 2018 IEEE 6th Workshop on Advances in Information,
    Electronic and Electrical Engineering (AIEEE). pp. 1–6. IEEE (2018)
48. PrivateVPN: Privatevpn: The world’s most-trusted private vpn provider,
    https://privatevpn.com/
49. Rakshit, S.: geograpy3: Extract countries, regions and cities from a url or text (Oct
    2022), https://pypi.org/project/geograpy3/
50. Rao,      N.:    Bandwidth       costs    around    the    world     (Aug      2016),
    https://blog.cloudflare.com/bandwidth-costs-around-the-world/
51. Roesner, F., Kohno, T., Wetherall, D.: Detecting and defending against third-party
    tracking on the web. In: Presented as part of the 9th {USENIX} Symposium on
    Networked Systems Design and Implementation ({NSDI} 12). pp. 155–168 (2012)
52. Ruth, K., Kumar, D., Wang, B., Valenta, L., Durumeric, Z.: Toppling top lists:
    Evaluating the accuracy of popular website lists. In: Proceedings of the 22nd ACM
    Internet Measurement Conference. pp. 374–387 (2022)
53. Simeonovski, M., Pellegrino, G., Rossow, C., Backes, M.: Who controls the inter-
    net? analyzing global threats using property graph traversals. In: Proceedings of
    the 26th International Conference on World Wide Web. pp. 647–656 (2017)
54. SimilarWeb: Top browsers market share - most popular browsers in august 2022 |
    similarweb, https://www.similarweb.com/browsers/
55. Singh, R., Dunna, A., Gill, P.: Characterizing the deployment and performance
    of multi-cdns. In: Proceedings of the Internet Measurement Conference 2018. pp.
    168–174 (2018)
56. VanderSloot, B., Amann, J., Bernhard, M., Durumeric, Z., Bailey, M., Halderman,
    J.A.: Towards a complete view of the certificate ecosystem. In: Proceedings of the
    2016 Internet Measurement Conference. pp. 543–549 (2016)
57. Wang, X.S., Balasubramanian, A., Krishnamurthy, A., Wetherall, D.: Demystifying
    page load performance with wprof. In: Presented as part of the 10th {USENIX}
    Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation ({NSDI} 13). pp.
    473–485 (2013)
58. Young, E.A., Hudson, T.J., Engelschall, R.: Openssl: The open source toolkit for
    ssl/tls (2011)
59. Zembruzki, L., Sommese, R., Granville, L.Z., Jacobs, A.S., Jonker, M., Moura,
    G.C.: Hosting industry centralization and consolidation. In: NOMS 2022-2022
    IEEE/IFIP Network Operations and Management Symposium. pp. 1–9. IEEE
    (2022)
60. Zhu, L., Amann, J., Heidemann, J.: Measuring the latency and pervasiveness of tls
    certificate revocation. In: International Conference on Passive and Active Network
    Measurement. pp. 16–29. Springer (2016)
