                                        Towards Real-World Industrial-Scale Verification:
                                            LLM-Driven Theorem Proving on seL4

                                        Jianyu Zhang1 , Fuyuan Zhang1 , Jiayi Lu1 , Jilin Hu1 , Xiaoyi Yin1 , Long Zhang2 ,
                                                             Feng Yang2 , and Yongwang Zhao1*
                                                                1
                                                                 Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China
                                        2
                                            National Key Laboratory of Science and Technology on Information System Security,
                                                                                China
arXiv:2602.08384v1 [cs.CR] 9 Feb 2026




                                                Abstract. Formal methods (FM) are reliable but costly to apply, often
                                                requiring years of expert effort in industrial-scale projects such as seL4,
                                                especially for theorem proving. Recent advances in large language models
                                                (LLMs) have made automated theorem proving increasingly feasible. How-
                                                ever, most prior work focuses on mathematics-oriented benchmarks such
                                                as miniF2F, with limited evaluation on real-world verification projects.
                                                The few studies that consider industrial-scale verification mostly rely
                                                on closed-source models with hundreds of billions of parameters, which
                                                cannot be locally deployed and incur substantial usage costs. In this
                                                paper, we propose AutoReal, an LLM-driven theorem proving method for
                                                real-world industrial-scale systems with support for lightweight local de-
                                                ployment. We evaluate AutoReal on the seL4-Isabelle verification project
                                                as a representative and challenging case study. AutoReal incorporates
                                                two key improvements: (1) chain-of-thought (CoT)-based proof training,
                                                which teaches the LLM the reasoning behind proof steps and enables
                                                step-wise explanations alongside proofs, and (2) context augmentation,
                                                which leverages proof context from the project to enhance LLM-driven
                                                proving. Based on the AutoReal methodology, we fine-tune a base model
                                                to obtain AutoReal-Prover, a compact 7B-scale prover for industrial-scale
                                                theorem proving. AutoReal-Prover achieves a 51.67% proof success rate
                                                on 660 theorems from seL4-designated Important Theories across all 10
                                                seL4 proof categories, substantially outperforming prior attempts on seL4
                                                (27.06%). To evaluate generalization, we further apply AutoReal-Prover to
                                                three security-related projects from the Archive of Formal Proofs (AFP):
                                                CRYSTALS-Kyber_Security, RSAPSS, and Elliptic_Curves_Group_Law,
                                                covering all 451 theorems and achieving a proof success rate of 53.88%.
                                                Overall, this work advances the application of LLM-driven theorem prov-
                                                ing in real-world industrial-scale verification.

                                                Keywords: Industrial-Scale Formal Verification · Automated Theorem
                                                Proving · seL4 · Large Language Models · Chain-of-Thought


                                        1     Introduction
                                        Formal methods (FM) provide rigorous techniques for verifying critical systems,
                                        with theorem proving as a key approach [6,9]. Theorem proving establishes system
2       J. Zhang et al.

correctness through machine-checked logical proofs and plays a central role in
large-scale, high-assurance verification [30,40,19]. However, the human effort
required to apply theorem proving remains prohibitively high, particularly for
real-world industrial-scale projects. For example, the original seL4 verification
reported about 20 person-years of proof effort [27]. Similarly, projects such as
CompCert [33] and CertiKOS [17] typically require multiple person-years of
expert effort. These substantial costs pose a major barrier to the widespread
adoption of formal methods.
    Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong
reasoning capabilities across a wide range of tasks [39,54,57], including model
checking [65,46] and auto formalization [9,62]. These advances motivate their
application to automated theorem proving. Polu et al. explored the possibility of
using LLMs to automatically complete theorem proving tasks [47]. Following the
release of evaluation benchmarks such as the mathematics-oriented miniF2F [68]
dataset, substantial research efforts have focused on improving proof success rates
on miniF2F, including LEGO-Prover [59], ProofAug [37], and Seed-Prover [10].
These works have continually advanced state-of-the-art proof success rates on
miniF2F. However, existing work has largely focused on specific benchmarks,
with miniF2F serving as the primary evaluation benchmark [68], which mainly
consists of mathematical theorems and differs from verification tasks arising in
industrial-scale systems. Extending these approaches to real-world industrial-scale
verification projects remains challenging, as such projects involve complex system
safety properties that typically require longer proof chains and substantially
richer proof contexts [67,35].
    Few recent studies have begun to explore the use of LLMs for theorem proving
in real-world verification projects [67,35,48,4]. For the seL4 verification project,
Selene [67] and FVELER [35] investigate the application of LLMs to discharging
proofs in the seL4 verification project, and these works have demonstrated
promising potential. Selene reports a best averaged proof success rate of 27.06%
with GPT-4 on 340 selected seL4 theorems, representing the previously best
reported result on seL4 [67]. However, applying LLM-driven theorem proving
to real-world verification workflows still requires further improvements in proof
success rates. Moreover, LLM-generated proofs may lack transparency for human
understanding, as the reasoning behind individual proof steps is not made
explicit [34,32,56]. This raises additional concerns when deploying LLM-driven
automation in safety-critical systems. In addition, prior works that consider
industrial-scale verification often rely on closed-source models such as GPT-
4 [67,48,4,13], which operate at the scale of hundreds of billions of parameters,
cannot be locally deployed, and incur substantial API costs when used for large-
scale proof generation. In contrast, practical industrial verification typically
requires lightweight local deployment due to operational, security, and cost
constraints [44,45,66]. To make LLM-driven theorem proving viable for real-world
industrial-scale verification, it is therefore necessary to improve both proof success
rates and provide explicit explanations of generated proofs. At the same time,
                    LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification       3

practical verification environments call for models with small parameter scales
that can be deployed locally under lightweight computational requirements.
    To address the challenges, we propose AutoReal, an LLM-driven theorem
proving method tailored for real-world industrial-scale verification workflows.
AutoReal is designed to improve proof success rates while making the reasoning
behind generated proofs explicit. To this end, AutoReal incorporates two im-
provements: CoT-based proof training and context augmentation. We instantiate
AutoReal by fine-tuning a 7B-scale model to obtain AutoReal-Prover, a prover
specialized for real-world verification projects that supports local deployment
with lightweight computational requirements. We evaluate AutoReal-Prover on
seL4, a representative and challenging industrial-scale verification project [21].
We further evaluate it on security-related projects from the Archive of Formal
Proofs (AFP) [15] to assess generalization. Our results show that AutoReal-Prover
substantially improves proof success rates over prior work and provides step-
aligned explanations with generated proofs. Our work advances the applicability
of LLM-driven theorem proving to real-world industrial-scale verification.
    In summary, the main contributions of this paper are as follows:
 – An LLM-driven method for real-world verification. We propose Auto-
   Real, an LLM-driven theorem proving method for real-world industrial-scale
   verification. AutoReal introduces two key improvements: CoT-based proof
   training, which teaches the model the reasoning behind proof steps and
   enables explanation generation, and context augmentation, which supplies
   proof context from the project to support LLM-driven proving. Through
   these improvements, AutoReal contributes to extending LLM-driven theo-
   rem proving from benchmark-oriented datasets to real-world industrial-scale
   verification projects.
 – A lightweight model for industrial-scale theorem proving. Based on
   the AutoReal methodology, we fine-tune a 7B-scale base model (Qwen2.5-
   Coder-7B [24]) to obtain AutoReal-Prover, a model specialized for theorem
   proving in industrial-scale verification. Its training leverages an intermediate
   proof CoT dataset of about 200k step-level instances constructed in this
   study. In addition to improved proof success rates, AutoReal-Prover generates
   step-wise explanations alongside proofs to support human understanding
   and inspection. As a compact 7B-scale model, AutoReal-Prover enables
   cost-efficient local deployment, making it well suited for real-world industrial
   verification settings. AutoReal-Prover is the concrete outcome of our approach
   and has been released as an open-source model.3
 – Improved performance on real-world verification tasks. We evalu-
   ate AutoReal-Prover on real-world verification projects comprising diverse,
   unfiltered theorems across multiple proof categories. On seL4, it achieves a
   51.67% proof success rate on all 660 theorems from seL4-designated Impor-
   tant Theories [51], covering all 10 proof categories [3], improving upon the
   previously reported best result of 27.06%. We further demonstrate generaliza-
   tion on three security-related AFP projects [2], covering all 451 theorems and
   3
       The model is available at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18412012.
4        J. Zhang et al.

      achieving a 53.88% success rate. Overall, these results highlight the potential
      of LLM-driven theorem proving for real-world verification.

Outline. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces
the verification workflow, illustrates where AutoReal fits in industrial verification,
and presents a running example. Section 3 describes the design and implemen-
tation of AutoReal, including the method overview and its core methodological
components. Section 4 presents a comprehensive experimental evaluation of
AutoReal. Section 5 reviews related work. Finally, Section 6 summarizes the
contributions and future work of this study.


2     Background: Verification Workflows and Use Cases
This section introduces the seL4 verification workflow and the application scenario
of AutoReal. We first review how proofs are developed in seL4, and then describe
where AutoReal fits into this workflow, followed by a concrete running example.

2.1     seL4 Verification Workflow
Industrial-scale verification in seL4. seL4 is a high-assurance microkernel whose
high-performance C implementation has been proven functionally correct in
Isabelle/HOL, via a refinement-based argument from abstract specification down
to C code [27,20]. The verified kernel comprises 8.7 KLOC of C code and about
600 lines of assembly, and is supported by a large proof base consisting of
roughly 200,000 lines of Isabelle scripts, which has been maintained and extended
alongside kernel evolution [27,20]. In the official seL4 verification repository,
proofs are organized into ten categories that cover diverse verification tasks [3],
such as access control proof [51] and assembly refinement proof [52].

seL4 verification workflow and proof context. As illustrated on the left of Figure 1,
seL4 verification follows a layered refinement methodology: it connects abstract
and executable kernel specifications to the C implementation via refinement
proofs [27,28]. This refinement-based verification results in a large collection of
theorems that must be proved in Isabelle/HOL [28]. These theorems are not
proved in isolation. To discharge a target theorem, the proof effort is typically
decomposed into smaller obligations, requiring auxiliary lemmas and unfolding
relevant definitions [27]. Consequently, proofs rely on a substantial body of
supporting material, primarily definitions and previously proved lemmas [28]. As
the development evolves, this body of supporting material steadily grows and
continues to support subsequent theorems [28]. We refer to this theorem-relevant
auxiliary information as the proof context.

2.2     AutoReal: Application Scenario and Running Example
Motivation: automating context-dependent interactive proofs. Although Isabelle
provides powerful automation, proof development in industrial-scale projects
                  LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification        5

such as seL4 remains largely human-driven [27,20]. For a given theorem, verifiers
work under the available proof context, iteratively selecting proof strategies
and composing proof steps until all subgoals are discharged. This process is
incremental and context-dependent. To prove a target theorem, verifiers often
need to introduce and prove auxiliary lemmas and unfold relevant definitions,
sometimes through multiple levels of decomposition [28]. Once established, these
auxiliary results are incorporated into the evolving proof context, supporting the
target theorem and enabling reuse in subsequent proofs.
   Constructing such proofs remains technically demanding and typically requires
substantial effort from formal-methods experts [27]. Moreover, as the kernel
evolves, verification introduces new proof obligations and necessitates ongoing
proof maintenance, further increasing the overall human cost [20].




Fig. 1: The application scenario of AutoReal in the seL4 verification workflow.


Where AutoReal fits in the workflow. Figure 1 shows the application scenario
of AutoReal. Given a target theorem together with its proof context, AutoReal-
Prover automatically synthesizes a complete Isabelle proof script. To further sup-
port human inspection and repair, it also outputs step-aligned natural-language
rationales alongside proof steps.
    The resulting proof script is validated by the Isabelle/HOL proof checker. If
accepted, the proof can be reused in the development, reducing manual effort in
both initial proof construction and proof maintenance as the kernel evolves.

Running example. Figure 2 shows a use case of AutoReal. The example is
taken from the invariant-abstract proof category of seL4 [50]. The target theorem
lec_ex_cap_to[wp] proves that all capabilities returned by lookup_extra_caps
are supported by a corresponding capability-table entry in the abstract state. The
input to AutoReal-Prover is the target theorem together with its proof context,
here the definition of lookup_extra_caps and the traversal lemma mapME_set.
Using this context, AutoReal-Prover produces a proof script that unfolds the
6       J. Zhang et al.

computation and propagates the required postcondition through the traversal.
The resulting script is accepted by Isabelle, illustrating that AutoReal-Prover
can effectively leverage the proof context to construct a correct proof.




                     Fig. 2: A running example for AutoReal.

   Alongside the proof script, AutoReal-Prover also emits step-aligned natural-
language rationales to explain the reasoning behind each proof step; a complete
example of the generated rationales is shown in Fig. 10 in the Appendix.


3     Methodology
In this section, we present the design and implementation of AutoReal. We
first provide an overview of the proposed method, and then describe its main
methodological components.

3.1   Overview
The method overview of AutoReal is shown in Fig. 3. The method consists of four
stages: Step 1. Proof CoT data construction. We construct a proof CoT dataset
from existing seL4 proofs, pairing individual proof steps with explanations of their
underlying reasoning to make step-level proof reasoning explicit (Section 3.2).
Step 2. CoT-based proof training. Using the constructed proof CoT data, we
fine-tune a base model to obtain AutoReal-Prover, which generates complete
proof scripts together with step-aligned explanations, enabling state-aware proof
construction without repeated interaction with Isabelle (Section 3.3). Step 3. Con-
text augmentation. During proof generation, AutoReal-Prover is supplied with
theorem-relevant proof context, including auxiliary lemmas and definitions, al-
lowing it to reason under the same assumptions as human verifiers (Section 3.4).
Step 4. Proof evaluation. AutoReal-Prover is applied to automatically generate
proof scripts and rationales for new theorems using a predefined prompt template
(Appendix A.1); the generated scripts are checked by the Isabelle proof checker,
                  LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification         7

and a proof is considered successful if it is accepted without errors, solves all
subgoals, and contains no placeholder commands such as sorry or oops [42].




                      Fig. 3: Method overview of AutoReal


3.2   Proof CoT data construction

Why step-level CoT for industrial-scale proofs. Step-level proof CoT data refers
to associating each proof command with an explanation of its effect on the
proof state. This formulation aligns with the interactive theorem proving process,
which proceeds by transforming a proof state through a sequence of proof steps,
each operating on the current subgoals and assumptions. In industrial-scale
developments such as seL4, this process is highly context-sensitive and relies on
recurring, project-specific proof patterns. Consequently, understanding a proof
requires not only knowing which commands are applied, but also how each step
changes the proof state and enables subsequent reasoning.
    Step-level proof CoT data makes this fine-grained reasoning explicit by asso-
ciating each proof command with an explanation of its effect on the proof state.
This step-level representation is essential for modeling how proofs are constructed
in large verification projects and for producing explanations that are meaning-
ful to human verifiers. To our knowledge, no public dataset provides step-level
CoT rationales for industrial-scale Isabelle proofs; we therefore construct such a
dataset from seL4.

Source proof traces and data split protocol. We construct step-level CoT data from
proof traces extracted by FVELER [35], which records seL4 proof developments
as sequences of individual proof steps together with their corresponding Isabelle
proof states. Each trace associates a proof step with the proof state immediately
8       J. Zhang et al.

before and after its execution, precisely characterizing the effect of the step on the
current proof obligations. We analyze these proof traces using a CoT generation
model to produce step-level proof CoT data, as shown in Figure 4.
   To prevent information leakage during evaluation, we adopt a strict hold-
out protocol: proof steps associated with the theorems used for evaluation are
excluded from CoT data construction and reserved for testing. As a result, the
CoT training data contains no proof steps from the evaluation targets.

Structured input for CoT generation. For each proof step, we construct a struc-
tured input for CoT generation that combines four components: (1) the source
lemma, including its identifier and statement; (2) the proof state before applying
the step, including the current subgoals; (3) the proof step itself, namely the
Isabelle command to be explained; and (4) the proof state after applying the
step. Figure 4 illustrates this organization. Together, these components provide
an explicit witness of how each proof step transforms the proof state.




      Fig. 4: Step-level CoT data construction from Isabelle proof traces.


    Each structured input is paired with an instruction prompt that asks the
model to explain the reasoning behind the proof step and its role in the larger
proof, producing a state-aware explanation of why the step is applicable and how
it contributes to proof progress. The full prompt is provided in Appendix A.2.

CoT generation model requirements. The CoT generation model should possess
sufficient mathematical reasoning capability and familiarity with formal languages
and interactive proof artifacts, including Isabelle proof commands and proof
states. As recent LLM training corpora increasingly cover code, mathematics,
and formal reasoning, these requirements are met by a growing number of
open-source models. In our experiments, we use Qwen2.5-Coder-7B [24] as the
CoT generation model, due to its strong mathematical reasoning capability and
compact parameter scale.

Generation procedure and resulting CoT instances. We feed each structured input
into the CoT generation model and collect the resulting step-aligned rationales,
                    LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification             9

yielding approximately 200k CoT instances from seL4 proofs. Each instance
pairs a single proof step with a natural-language explanation describing (1) the
proof methods, lemmas, and definitions applied in the step and their purpose;
(2) the resulting change to the proof state, such as simplifying or discharging
subgoals; and (3) the contribution of the step to the overall progress of the proof.
A complete example of a CoT instance is provided in Appendix B.1.

3.3   CoT-based proof training
Training objective. The goal of CoT-based proof training is to enable AutoReal-
Prover to construct complete and correct proofs in a single inference. In addition to
generating correct proof scripts, the model is trained to produce natural-language
rationales aligned with individual proof steps.
    In interactive theorem proving, each proof step is selected based on its ap-
plicability to the current proof state. Training a model solely on proof scripts
provides no explicit supervision on this state-dependent reasoning and therefore
fails to capture how proof states evolve across steps. A straightforward alterna-
tive is to generate proofs incrementally while repeatedly querying Isabelle for
updated proof states. However, such tightly coupled interaction incurs substantial
computational overhead, particularly in large-scale developments such as seL4.
    Our approach instead trains the model, via supervised learning on proof CoT
data, to internalize proof-state evolution during proof construction. By learning
from step-aligned explanations that justify why a step is applicable and how
it advances the proof, AutoReal-Prover can reason about proof states without
requiring repeated interaction with the Isabelle proof checker.

Proof-state transitions and CoT supervision. This training design is grounded in
the structure of Isabelle/HOL proof developments. In Isabelle, the proof state
maintains a list of remaining subgoals for the target theorem and guides the
selection of subsequent proof steps [63]. Internally, each subgoal is represented as
a theorem in sequent form, typically written as A1 =⇒ · · · =⇒ An =⇒ C, where
A1 , . . . , An are the local assumptions/premises accumulated for that subgoal
and C is its current conclusion; n = 0 indicates a premise-free subgoal, and a
proof is fully discharged when no subgoals remain. Proof methods transform the
current proof state by decomposing, rewriting, or eliminating subgoals until all
are resolved [64].
     Rather than conditioning the model on the full proof state at every step,
CoT-based proof training can be viewed as providing explicit reasoning traces as
intermediate supervision [61]. From a modeling perspective, chain-of-thought rea-
soning introduces an intermediate trace Z = (z1 , . . . , zT ) between the model input
x and the final output y, where each zt explains the intent of the corresponding
proof step at and how it is expected to affect the proof obligations [61,43]. For
a proof command sequence A = (a1 , . . . , aT ), applying at transforms the proof
                                                                 a1     a2        aT
state Gt−1 into Gt , yielding the goal-state evolution G0 −→        G1 −→  · · · −−→ GT .
Accordingly, the structured trace used in training can be written as (x, G0 ) ⇒
(z1 , a1 ) ⇒ · · · ⇒ (zT , aT ).
10     J. Zhang et al.

    During instruction tuning, the model input consists of the target lemma
statement together with the relevant proof context, denoted by x, which induces
the initial proof state G0 . The model is trained to generate the entire proof as a
single sequence interleaving proof steps with chain-of-thought explanations, and
generation terminates when the produced script fully discharges the goals, with
the final explanation reflecting this completion.

Training data representation. Guided by the above modeling perspective, Figure 5
illustrates the structure of a training instance used for CoT-based proof training.
The training input consists of the target lemma together with its associated proof
context, while the training output is a single structured sequence that alternates
between Isabelle proof commands and step-aligned reasoning explanations derived
from the step-level proof CoT data constructed in Section 3.2.
            Training Input (Lemma Statement + Proof Context)

lemma set_ep_bitmapQ_no_L1_orphans[wp]: "..."
proof context: "..."

                 Training Output (Proof Step + Rationale)

whole proof:
apply (unfold setEndpoint_def)
(* The proof step unfolds the definition of `setEndpoint`, simplifying the goal
,→   without changing its logical meaning ... *)
apply (rule setObject_ep_pre)
(* The proof step applies the `setObject_ep_pre` rule, strengthening the
,→   precondition with the required invariant ... *)
apply (simp add: bitmapQ_defs setObject_def split_def)
(* The proof step applies simplification rules to reduce the complexity of the
,→   goal ... *)
apply (wp hoare_Ball_helper hoare_vcg_all_lift updateObject_default_inv | simp
,→   add: bitmapQ_def)+
(* The proof step applies WP-based reasoning to discharge the remaining proof
,→   obligations ... *)
done
(* The proof completes successfully with no remaining subgoals ... *)

       Fig. 5: Training instance structure for CoT-based proof training.

    For each proof command, the accompanying explanation describes how the
step transforms the current proof state and advances the proof. This design explic-
itly trains the model to generate proofs together with aligned natural-language
rationales and encourages it to connect successive proof steps by internally rea-
soning about proof-state transitions. As a result, step-aligned explanations can
stand in for explicit proof-state queries, enabling proof generation in a single
inference without repeated interaction with Isabelle.

Training implementation. We realize this training objective via instruction
tuning of a base model to obtain AutoReal-Prover. In our implementation, we
fine-tune Qwen2.5-Coder-7B [24] using the training instances constructed as
                   LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification          11

described in Figure 5. This Qwen2.5-Coder-7B is chosen for its strong capability
in code semantic understanding and reasoning [24], while its relatively compact 7B
parameter scale facilitates cost-efficient local deployment in real-world verification
settings. Each training instance prompts the model to generate the entire proof
as a single sequence that interleaves proof commands with their corresponding
CoT explanations. Detailed training configurations are provided in Appendix C.

3.4   Context augmentation
Why context augmentation for industrial proofs. As discussed in Section 2.1,
proofs in industrial Isabelle developments rely on a substantial proof context
accumulated throughout the verification process. In large systems such as seL4,
this context is rich and distributed across many theory files, which makes it
difficult to complete proofs without explicitly identifying and supplying the
relevant dependencies for a target theorem [27,28]. This motivates the need
for explicit context augmentation when applying automated theorem proving
techniques in industrial-scale verification.
    Prior work typically addresses this dependence by providing all theory files
transitively required by the target theorem [67]. Although automated, this ap-
proach becomes inefficient in large developments, where dependency chains may
span dozens of layers [35]. As a result, the prover is burdened with substantial
token overhead and large amounts of information that are not directly relevant
to the current proof obligation, which can obscure the essential structure of the
problem and hinder effective reasoning.

Targeted context augmentation. AutoReal adopts a targeted context augmentation
strategy that mirrors how proofs are developed in large-scale verification projects.
In developments such as seL4, proofs are carried out under an evolving proof
context that accumulates definitions and lemmas. For a given theorem, verifiers
select and reuse the available proof context to discharge the goal.
    Following this workflow, AutoReal expects theorem-relevant proof context to
be explicitly provided by the verifier together with the target theorem. Instead
of supplying entire theory files, a compact set of definitions and lemmas that are
necessary for understanding the theorem statement and completing the proof is
supplied as proof context.
    Figure 2 illustrates how AutoReal-Prover exploits proof context during
proof construction. In this example, the proof context includes the definition of
lookup_extra_caps (via lookup_extra_caps_def), allowing AutoReal-Prover
to unfold the function and expose the monadic, list-processing structure needed for
weakest-precondition reasoning. The lemma mapME_set then connects the mapME-
based traversal to a set-of-results view, enabling the WP step (wp mapME_set
| simp)+ to propagate the desired postcondition uniformly to all capabilities
returned in the result list. Without this supplied proof context, the proof would
typically require manually recovering the key unfolding and appropriate traversal
lemmas before automation can carry the postcondition through the computation,
which is difficult in practice for both LLMs and human verifiers.
12      J. Zhang et al.

Context augmentation in our evaluation. In our evaluation, the proof context
supplied to AutoReal-Prover is kept consistent with the definitions and lemmas
used in the corresponding human-written proofs [3,2]. By aligning the provided
context with the original proofs, we ensure that the auxiliary information is
correct and sufficient for the target theorem, and that the evaluation focuses on
automated proof construction rather than on discovering relevant context. This
setup isolates the effectiveness of context-aware proof generation. It allows us
to assess whether AutoReal can successfully exploit theorem-relevant context to
synthesize complete proofs and aligned explanations, under the same assumptions
and dependencies as those used in large-scale industrial verification practice.


4     Experimental Evaluation

In this section, we present an experimental evaluation of AutoReal-Prover. We
first describe the evaluation objectives and setup, and then report quantitative
results on the seL4 verification project [3] and on security-related projects from
the AFP [2]. We further provide qualitative analyses of the generated proofs and
their natural-language rationales, followed by an ablation study assessing the
impact of the introduced improvements.
    Our experiments are designed to address the following research questions:

 – RQ1: How does AutoReal-Prover perform across Important Theories in
   different seL4 proof categories?
 – RQ2: Does the proving capability of AutoReal-Prover generalize to other
   real-world verification projects?
 – RQ3: Are the natural-language rationales generated by AutoReal-Prover
   accurate and useful for human verifiers?
 – RQ4: Do the proofs generated by AutoReal-Prover differ from the original
   human-written proofs?
 – RQ5: Are the introduced improvements responsible for the observed gains
   in proof success rates? (ablation study)


4.1   Evaluation Setup
Evaluation Projects and Theorems We evaluate AutoReal-Prover on the
seL4 verification project and on additional real-world verification projects drawn
from the AFP. Evaluation is conducted at the theorem level and focuses on
complete theories used in real-world verification efforts.

seL4 and Important Theories. Our primary evaluation is performed on the
seL4-Isabelle verification project. Since seL4 is actively maintained, we conduct
the evaluation on the version released on March 1, 2024 [3], together with the
corresponding Isabelle version specified by the project.
   According to the official organization of the seL4 repository [3], proofs are
grouped into ten proof categories, each corresponding to a class of verification
                  LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification      13

tasks, as summarized in Table 1. For each category, the corresponding README
file in the seL4 repository designates a set of Important Theories that serve as
the key proof developments for that category [50,52,51]. Following the project
guidance, for each proof category we select the first theory listed under Impor-
tant Theories in the README and evaluate AutoReal-Prover on all theorems
contained in that theory, without cherry-picking. In the capDL-api category [53],
the designated theories API_DP.thy and Kernel_DP.thy contain no theorems;
we therefore evaluate KHeap_DP.thy, which has the largest number of theorems
in this category. None of the evaluated theorems are included in the CoT training
data. A detailed description of the proof categories and the theories used in our
evaluation is provided in the Appendix D.1.

Table 1: seL4 proof categories and the Important Theories used in evaluation.
Proof category       Description                             Important theory
access-control     Access Control Proof                          Syscall_AC.thy
asmrefine          Assembly Refinement Proof                SEL4GraphRefine.thy
bisim              Bisimilarity of seL4 with a static            Separation.thy
                   Separation Kernel
capDL-api          CapDL API Proofs                               KHeap_DP.thy
crefine            C Refinement Proof                             Refine_C.thy
drefine            CapDL Refinement Proof                         Refine_D.thy
infoflow           Confidentiality Proof                   Noninterference.thy
invariant-abstract Abstract Spec Invariant Proof                Syscall_AI.thy
refine             Design Spec Refinement Proof                     Refine.thy
sep-capDL          CapDL Separation Logic Proof          AbstractSeparation_SD.
                                                                           thy


AFP projects. To assess the generalization of AutoReal-Prover beyond seL4, we
additionally evaluate it on security-related verification projects drawn from the
AFP [2], a large collection of verification developments mechanically checked in
Isabelle [15]. We use the stable AFP release from January 2026 together with
the Isabelle2025-1 proof checker (December 2025) [2,1].
    We consider three security-related projects: CRYSTALS-Kyber_Security [29]
(64 theorems in 9 theories), RSAPSS [36] (278 theorems in 12 theories), and
Elliptic_Curves_Group_Law [5] (109 theorems in 3 theories). For each project,
AutoReal-Prover attempts to prove all theorems under the same evaluation
protocol as used for seL4. Additional details on these projects and the reasons
for their selection are provided in Appendix D.2.


Metric: Proof success rate The proof success rate measures the proportion of
theorems that AutoReal-Prover can successfully prove within a theory or an entire
project. To evaluate this metric, we replace the original human-written proofs
with proofs generated by AutoReal-Prover in the corresponding theories and
check them using the Isabelle proof checker. A theorem is considered successfully
14     J. Zhang et al.

proved if at least one of up to 256 proof attempts is accepted by Isabelle, which
means that the generated proof script discharges all subgoals without errors and
contains no placeholder commands such as sorry or oops. This metric reflects
the proving capability of AutoReal-Prover on real-world verification tasks.


4.2   Experimental Results and Discussion
Results on seL4 (RQ1) Table 2 summarizes the proof success rates of AutoReal-
Prover on seL4. Overall, AutoReal-Prover successfully proves 341 out of 660
theorems from the Important Theories, yielding an overall proof success rate of
51.67%. This result shows that AutoReal-Prover can automatically discharge
a substantial portion of real-world seL4 verification obligations. As shown in
the table, proof success rates vary across different proof categories, reflecting
differences in the complexity of the verification tasks.

Table 2: Proof success rates of AutoReal-Prover on seL4 across proof categories.
                                                                  Proof success
Proof category           Theory                  Solved/Total
                                                                           rate
access-control           Syscall_AC.thy                47/84              55.95%
asmrefine                SEL4GraphRefine.thy             1/1                100%
bisim                    Separation.thy                  5/9              55.56%
crefine                  Refine_C.thy                  13/46              28.26%
drefine                  Refine_D.thy                    2/3              66.67%
capDL-api                KHeap_DP.thy                 89/123              72.36%
infoflow                 Noninterference.thy         101/233              43.35%
invariant-abstract       Syscall_AI.thy               57/105              54.29%
refine                   Refine.thy                    26/55              47.27%
sep-capDL                AbstractSeparation_SD.thy       0/1                  0%
Overall                  –                           341/660             51.67%

    Direct comparison with prior work on seL4 is difficult, as the only existing
LLM-driven theorem proving efforts on seL4 adopt different theorem selection
strategies and evaluation protocols. For example, Selene evaluates on 340 sam-
pled seL4 theorems drawn from multiple sessions using predefined filtering and
stratified sampling criteria, and reports a best averaged proof success rate of
27.06% [67]. This result is obtained using the closed-source model GPT-4.
    By contrast, we focus on a comprehensive and unfiltered evaluation set-
ting, considering all theorems contained in the Important Theories, which are
explicitly designated by the official seL4 repository and span all seL4 proof
categories [3,53,50,52]. Under this setting, AutoReal-Prover achieves an overall
proof success rate of 51.67%. Notably, AutoReal-Prover is a compact 7B model
that supports lightweight local deployment, as required in real-world verification
environments, yet still attains substantially higher proof success on seL4.
    We further examine the impact of reducing the maximum number of proof
attempts per theorem under the same seL4 evaluation setting. With 5 attempts,
                  LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification        15

the success rate is 37.12%, increasing to 46.36% with 64 attempts and 50.00%
with 128 attempts, compared to 51.67% with 256 attempts. This indicates that
performance saturates well before the maximum budget, with only marginal gains
beyond 64 attempts. In practice, we use 256 attempts to probe the upper bound
of LLM-driven proving on difficult real-world theorems, rather than relying on
excessive sampling to obtain higher success rates.


Results on AFP (RQ2) Table 3 reports the proof success rates of AutoReal-
Prover on three security-related projects [36,29,5] from the AFP [2]. Across
these projects, AutoReal-Prover achieves proof success rates ranging from 43.12%
to 59.64%, with an overall success rate of 53.88%. This overall success rate is
not lower than that obtained on seL4, indicating that the proving capability of
AutoReal-Prover generalizes beyond seL4 to other real-world verification projects.

Table 3: Proof success rates of AutoReal-Prover on AFP security-related projects.
                                                               Proof success
   AFP project                               Solved/Total
                                                                        rate
   CRYSTALS-Kyber_Security                          32/64              50.00%
   RSAPSS                                         164/278              59.64%
   Elliptic_Curves_Group_Law                       47/109              43.12%
   Overall                                      243/451               53.88%

    Consistent with the observations on seL4, we further examine how the success
rate varies with the number of proof attempts on the AFP projects. The overall
success rate reaches 36.36% with 5 attempts, 51.00% with 64 attempts, and
52.55% with 128 attempts, compared to 53.88% with 256 attempts, suggesting
that the reported performance is robust across a range of attempt budgets.


Quality of Generated Natural-Language Rationales (RQ3) We evaluate
the quality of the natural-language rationales produced by AutoReal-Prover
through a step-level analysis. Specifically, we examine all 670 proof steps and
their aligned rationales from the 341 seL4 theorems successfully proved by
AutoReal-Prover, with a focus on identifying reasoning errors or mismatches
between the rationales and the corresponding proof commands. We find that
inaccurate rationales are concentrated in a small number of structurally specific
cases, most notably the terminal done step. Among these, 84 rationales associated
with done contain irrelevant or incorrect explanations, often involving unrelated
lemmas or theories. This is likely due to the high frequency and syntactic
uniformity of done in seL4 proofs, which makes this semantically underspecified
step prone to explanation hallucination. Outside of done, only 10 additional
inaccurate rationales are observed, mainly involving minor mismatches for by
simp, overly generic explanations for apply auto, and spurious references under
apply wpsimp+. Excluding done, the inaccuracy rate is 1.49%.
16     J. Zhang et al.

    Beyond correctness, we qualitatively examine the usefulness of the generated
rationales for human verifiers in Appendix B.2. The case study compares rationales
produced for correct and incorrect proofs of the same theorem, and shows that
they exhibit different structural characteristics, which can assist verifiers in
identifying deviations in failed proof attempts and informing subsequent repair.
    Overall, although the generated rationales are not perfect and exhibit occa-
sional systematic errors in specific structural cases, they are largely accurate and
informative, providing support for proof inspection and repair.


Comparison with Human-Written Proofs (RQ4) We compare proofs
generated by AutoReal-Prover with the original human-written proofs for the 341
theorems successfully proved in the seL4 evaluation, along two dimensions: proof
duplication and method usage. Among these theorems, 93.55% of the generated
proofs differ from their human-written counterparts, indicating that the model
does not reproduce existing proofs. We further compare the proofs by counting
the number of applied methods per proof, including Isabelle proof methods as
well as referenced lemmas and definitions. AutoReal-Prover-generated proofs use
6.018 methods on average, compared to 6.123 methods in the original proofs.
Figure 6 shows the corresponding distributions. Appendix B.3 analyzes differences
in proof methods using a single example.




                 Fig. 6: Distribution of applied method counts.


   These results indicate that most AutoReal-Prover-generated proofs differ from
the original human-written proofs, demonstrating their distinctness.


Ablation Study (RQ5) To assess whether the two key improvements introduced
in this work are responsible for the gains in proof success rates, we conduct an
ablation study on (1) CoT-based proof training and (2) context augmentation. We
use exactly the same evaluation configuration as in prior experiments, and evaluate
on a subset of the seL4 test set: the 105 theorems from the invariant-abstract
category (Syscall_AI.thy) [50]. Table 4 summarizes the results.
    As shown in Table 4, the base model solves only 1 out of 105 theorems.
Adding either CoT-based proof training or context augmentation increases the
                  LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification          17


                             Table 4: Ablation study.
                                                                     Proof success
Method                                          Solved/Total
                                                                              rate
Base model (Qwen2.5-Coder-7B)                            1/105                0.95%
Base model + CoT-based proof training                   24/105               22.86%
Base model + context augmentation                        6/105                5.71%
Our method
(Base model + CoT-based proof training +                57/105              54.29%
context augmentation)

proof success rate, but the performance remains limited when applying only one
component. When both improvements are enabled, the success rate increases
substantially, reaching 54.29% (57/105), indicating that the two components are
complementary and together account for the observed gains.


5    Related Work
Formal verification provides rigorous techniques for establishing system cor-
rectness, with mature paradigms such as model checking and theorem prov-
ing [12,40,60,11,41]. Within theorem proving, prior work has pursued different
directions for improving automation. Fully automated, SMT-style approaches
are effective in restricted domains but limited in expressiveness for rich program
semantics [55,14]. In contrast, interactive theorem proving combines automated
reasoning with human guidance to support verification in expressive logical frame-
works [58,42,38]. This paper focuses on automating interactive theorem proving,
and reviews prior work in this direction, with emphasis on proof automation and
recent LLM-based techniques for reducing human effort in large-scale verification.

Interactive Theorem Proving (ITP). Proof assistants such as Isabelle [42],
Coq [23], and Lean [38] support machine-checked proofs through a combina-
tion of human guidance and automated reasoning. To reduce manual effort, these
systems provide various automation mechanisms. In Isabelle, Sledgehammer
integrates external automated provers into the interactive proving workflow [8,7],
while further work has improved automation through algebraic methods [18]. Sim-
ilar automation efforts have also been explored in other proof assistants, such as
SMT-based automation in Coq [16]. Despite these advances, existing automation
remains insufficient for large-scale, real-world verification. In industrial projects
such as seL4 [20], proof development continues to dominate verification cost, with
human effort as the primary scalability bottleneck [27,17].

LLM-Driven Theorem Proving. Large language models (LLMs) have demon-
strated strong reasoning capabilities across domains, motivating their application
to automated theorem proving [31]. Early work by Polu et al. [47] introduced
GPT-f for Metamath, showing that LLMs can generate formal proofs. Zheng
18      J. Zhang et al.

et al. [68] later proposed miniF2F, a multilingual benchmark supporting proof
assistants such as Isabelle and Lean, which has since become the standard testbed
for evaluating LLM-driven theorem proving. Most subsequent work focuses on im-
proving proof success rates on miniF2F-test. In the Isabelle track, representative
systems include DSP [25] (39.3%), LEGO-Prover [59] (50.02%), HybridProver [22]
(59.4%), and ProofAug [37] (66.0%). In the Lean track, substantially higher suc-
cess rates have been reported, for example DeepSeek-Prover-V2 [49] (88.9%),
Delta Prover [69] (95.9%), and Seed-Prover [10] (99.6%). While these approaches
advance the state of the art on benchmark datasets that primarily target mathe-
matical problem solving, real-world verification poses different challenges. Proofs
in industrial verification rely on extensive project-specific context and focus on
complex system security properties [27,26,67,35]. Bridging this gap remains a
challenge for applying LLM-driven theorem proving to real-world verification.

LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification. Recent work has
begun to explore LLM-driven theorem proving in real-world verification set-
tings [35,67,48,4]. Among studies targeting seL4, Lin et al. [35] constructed the
FVELER dataset by extracting theorems, proof steps, and proof states from seL4,
and evaluated automated proof attempts on this dataset, reporting proof success
rates between 5.75% and 8.17% on the FVELER test and test-hard splits. Zhang
et al. [67] presented Selene as an early attempt at automated proof generation
for seL4, evaluating 340 sampled theorems across multiple sessions and reporting
a best averaged proof success rate of 27.06%. These results highlight both the
potential of LLM-driven theorem proving for real-world verification and the
remaining performance gap. Moreover, existing approaches to industrial-scale
verification often rely on closed-source, extremely large models that cannot be
locally deployed [67,48,4,13], while practical settings demand lightweight and
deployable solutions [44,45,66]. Building on this line of work, our study targets
higher proof success rates while supporting lightweight local deployment.

6    Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper, we presented AutoReal, an LLM-driven approach to automated
theorem proving for real-world industrial-scale verification, and evaluated it
on the seL4-Isabelle verification project. AutoReal integrates proof chain-of-
thought training with targeted context augmentation to support automated proof
construction while making proof reasoning explicit. Based on this approach,
we fine-tuned Qwen2.5-Coder-7B to obtain AutoReal-Prover. Under a compre-
hensive and unfiltered evaluation on seL4, AutoReal-Prover achieves a 51.67%
proof success rate, substantially improving over prior results, and evaluation on
security-related AFP developments indicates good generality. AutoReal-Prover
produces step-aligned explanations alongside generated proofs to support proof
understanding. All results are obtained using a compact 7B-scale model, enabling
cost-efficient local deployment under practical industrial constraints.
    Overall, this work advances the practical applicability of LLM-driven theorem
proving in real-world industrial-scale verification.
                    LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification               19

Future work. Although AutoReal is implemented and evaluated in Isabelle/HOL,
the approach is not Isabelle-specific. It is grounded in real-world verification
workflows, where proofs rely on large and fragmented proof contexts accumulated
during development. This characteristic is shared by large-scale verification
projects in other interactive theorem provers such as Coq and Lean, including
systems like CompCert [33]. A natural direction for future work is therefore to
extend the approach to other real-world verification projects, including those
developed in different formal languages. At the same time, while AutoReal closely
follows existing verification practice, the extraction of theorem-relevant proof
context is not yet automated and currently requires human input. Future work
will focus on automating proof-context extraction and improving proof success
rates on industrial-scale verification tasks, with the aim of further reducing
manual effort in real-world formal proof development.

References
 1. Isabelle-2025-1 (2025), https://isabelle.in.tum.de/index.html
 2. Archive of Formal Proofs-Topics (2026), https://isa-afp.org/topics/
 3. Formal Proofs about seL4 (2026), https://github.com/seL4/l4v/tree/master/
    proof
 4. Bayazıt, B., Li, Y., Si, X.: A case study on the effectiveness of llms in verification
    with proof assistants. In: Proceedings of the 1st ACM SIGPLAN International
    Workshop on Language Models and Programming Languages. pp. 91–105 (2025).
    https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16939067
 5. Berghofer, S.: The group law for elliptic curves. Archive of Formal Proofs (February
    2017), https://isa-afp.org/entries/Elliptic_Curves_Group_Law.html, For-
    mal proof development
 6. Bjørner, D., Havelund, K.: 40 years of formal methods: Some obstacles and some
    possibilities? In: International Symposium on Formal Methods. pp. 42–61. Springer
    (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-06410-9_4
 7. Blanchette, J.C., Böhme, S., Paulson, L.C.: Extending sledgehammer with smt
    solvers. Journal of automated reasoning 51(1), 109–128 (2013). https://doi.org/
    10.1007/s10817-013-9278-5
 8. Blanchette, J.C., Bulwahn, L., Nipkow, T.: Automatic proof and disproof in is-
    abelle/hol. In: International Symposium on Frontiers of Combining Systems. pp.
    12–27. Springer (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-24364-6_2
 9. Cao, Q., Song, F., Zhan, N.: Preface to the special issue on formal methods and
    applications. International Journal of Software and Informatics 14(4), 349–351
    (2024). https://doi.org/10.21655/ijsi.1673-7288.00336
10. Chen, L., Gu, J., Huang, L., Huang, W., Jiang, Z., Jie, A., Jin, X., Jin, X., Li, C., Ma,
    K., et al.: Seed-prover: Deep and broad reasoning for automated theorem proving.
    arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.23726 (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.
    23726
11. Clarke, E.M.: Model checking. In: International conference on foundations of soft-
    ware technology and theoretical computer science. pp. 54–56. Springer (1997).
    https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0058022
12. Clarke, E.M., Wing, J.M.: Formal methods: State of the art and future directions.
    ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 28(4), 626–643 (1996). https://doi.org/10.
    1145/242223.242257
20      J. Zhang et al.

13. Curaba, C., Denis, D., Minisini, A.: Cryptoformaleval: Integrating large language
    models and formal verification for automated cryptographic protocol vulnerability
    detection. In: The First Workshop on System-2 Reasoning at Scale, NeurIPS’24
14. De Moura, L., Bjørner, N.: Z3: An efficient smt solver. In: International conference
    on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems. pp. 337–340.
    Springer (2008). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-78800-3_24
15. Eberl, M., Klein, G., Nipkow, T., Paulson, L., Thiemann, R., et al.: Archive of
    formal proofs. Online Journal. URL: https://www. isa-afp. org (2022). https:
    //doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2104.01052
16. Ekici, B., Mebsout, A., Tinelli, C., Keller, C., Katz, G., Reynolds, A., Barrett, C.:
    Smtcoq: A plug-in for integrating smt solvers into coq. In: International Conference
    on Computer Aided Verification. pp. 126–133. Springer (2017). https://doi.org/
    10.1007/978-3-319-63390-9_7
17. Gu, R., Shao, Z., Chen, H., Wu, X.N., Kim, J., Sjöberg, V., Costanzo, D.:
    {CertiKOS}: An extensible architecture for building certified concurrent {OS}
    kernels. In: 12th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Imple-
    mentation (OSDI 16). pp. 653–669 (2016)
18. Guttmann, W., Struth, G., Weber, T.: Automating algebraic methods in isabelle.
    In: International Conference on Formal Engineering Methods. pp. 617–632. Springer
    (2011). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-24559-6_41
19. Hasan, O., Tahar, S.: Formal verification methods. In: Encyclopedia of Informa-
    tion Science and Technology, Third Edition, pp. 7162–7170. IGI Global Scientific
    Publishing (2015). https://doi.org/10.4018/978-1-4666-5888-2.ch705
20. Heiser, G.: The sel4 microkernel–an introduction. The seL4 Foundation 1 (2020)
21. Heiser, G., Klein, G., Andronick, J.: sel4 in australia: from research to real-world
    trustworthy systems. Communications of the ACM 63(4), 72–75 (2020). https:
    //doi.org/10.1145/3378426
22. Hu, J., Zhang, J., Zhao, Y., Ringer, T.: Hybridprover: Augmenting theorem proving
    with llm-driven proof synthesis and refinement. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.15740
    (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.15740
23. Huet, G., Kahn, G., Paulin-Mohring, C.: The coq proof assistant a tutorial. Rapport
    Technique 178, 113 (1997)
24. Hui, B., Yang, J., Cui, Z., Yang, J., Liu, D., Zhang, L., Liu, T., Zhang, J., Yu, B.,
    Dang, K., et al.: Qwen2. 5-coder technical report. CoRR (2024). https://doi.org/
    10.48550/arXiv.2409.12186
25. Jiang, A.Q., Welleck, S., Zhou, J.P., Lacroix, T., Liu, J., Li, W., Jamnik, M., Lample,
    G., Wu, Y.: Draft, sketch, and prove: Guiding formal theorem provers with informal
    proofs. In: The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations.
    https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2210.12283
26. Klein, G., Andronick, J., Elphinstone, K., Murray, T., Sewell, T., Kolanski, R.,
    Heiser, G.: Comprehensive formal verification of an os microkernel. ACM Trans-
    actions on Computer Systems (TOCS) 32(1), 1–70 (2014). https://doi.org/10.
    1145/2560537
27. Klein, G., Elphinstone, K., Heiser, G., Andronick, J., Cock, D., Derrin, P., Elkaduwe,
    D., Engelhardt, K., Kolanski, R., Norrish, M., et al.: sel4: Formal verification of an os
    kernel. In: Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 22nd symposium on Operating systems
    principles. pp. 207–220 (2009). https://doi.org/10.1145/1629575.1629596
28. Klein, G., Sewell, T., Winwood, S.: Refinement in the formal verification of the
    sel4 microkernel. In: Design and Verification of Microprocessor Systems for High-
    Assurance Applications, pp. 323–339. Springer (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/
    978-1-4419-1539-9_11
                   LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification            21

29. Kreuzer, K.: Crystals-kyber_security. Archive of Formal Proofs (December 2023),
    https://isa-afp.org/entries/CRYSTALS-Kyber_Security.html, Formal proof
    development
30. Krichen, M.: A survey on formal verification and validation techniques for inter-
    net of things. Applied Sciences 13(14), 8122 (2023). https://doi.org/10.3390/
    app13148122
31. Lama, V., Ma, C., Ghosal, T.: Benchmarking automated theorem proving with
    large language models. In: Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on NLP for Sci-
    ence (NLP4Science). pp. 208–218 (2024). https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.
    nlp4science-1.18
32. Lebese, T., Makondo, N., Cornelio, C., Khan, N.: Proof extraction for logical neural
    networks. In: Advances in Programming Languages and Neurosymbolic Systems
    Workshop (2021)
33. Leroy, X., Blazy, S., Kästner, D., Schommer, B., Pister, M., Ferdinand, C.: Compcert-
    a formally verified optimizing compiler. In: ERTS 2016: Embedded Real Time
    Software and Systems, 8th European Congress (2016)
34. Limperg, J.: Tactic script optimisation for aesop. In: Proceedings of the 14th ACM
    SIGPLAN International Conference on Certified Programs and Proofs. pp. 98–111
    (2025). https://doi.org/10.1145/3703595.3705877
35. Lin, X., Cao, Q., Huang, Y., Wang, H., Lu, J., Liu, Z., Song, L., Liang, X.: Fvel:
    Interactive formal verification environment with large language models via theorem
    proving. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37, 54932–54946
    (2024). https://doi.org/10.52202/079017-1742
36. Lindenberg, C., Wirt, K.: Sha1, rsa, pss and more. Archive of Formal Proofs (May
    2005), https://isa-afp.org/entries/RSAPSS.html, Formal proof development
37. Liu, H., Sun, J., Li, Z., Yao, A.C.: Proofaug: Efficient neural theorem proving via
    fine-grained proof structure analysis. In: Forty-second International Conference on
    Machine Learning (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2501.18310
38. Moura, L.d., Ullrich, S.: The lean 4 theorem prover and programming language. In:
    International Conference on Automated Deduction. pp. 625–635. Springer (2021).
    https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-79876-5_37
39. Naveed, H., Khan, A.U., Qiu, S., Saqib, M., Anwar, S., Usman, M., Akhtar,
    N., Barnes, N., Mian, A.: A comprehensive overview of large language models.
    ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology 16(5), 1–72 (2025).
    https://doi.org/10.1145/3744746
40. Nawaz, M.S., Malik, M., Li, Y., Sun, M., Lali, M.I.U.: A survey on theorem provers
    in formal methods. CoRR (2019). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1912.03028
41. Nipkow, T., Klein, G.: Concrete semantics: with Isabelle/HOL. Springer (2014)
42. Nipkow, T., Wenzel, M., Paulson, L.C.: Isabelle/HOL: a proof assistant for higher-
    order logic. Springer (2002). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45949-9_5
43. Nye, M., Andreassen, A.J., Gur-Ari, G., Michalewski, H., Austin, J., Bieber, D.,
    Dohan, D., Lewkowycz, A., Bosma, M., Luan, D., et al.: Show your work: Scratch-
    pads for intermediate computation with language models. In: Deep Learning for
    Code Workshop (2021). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2112.00114
44. Paloniemi, T., Setälä, M., Mikkonen, T.: Porting an llm based application from
    chatgpt to an on-premise environment. In: 2025 IEEE/ACM 22nd International
    Conference on Software and Systems Reuse (ICSR). pp. 78–83. IEEE (2025).
    https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSR66718.2025.00014
45. Pan, G., Chodnekar, V., Roy, A., Wang, H.: A cost-benefit analysis of on-premise
    large language model deployment: Breaking even with commercial llm services. arXiv
    preprint arXiv:2509.18101 (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2509.18101
22      J. Zhang et al.

46. Pirzada, M.A., Reger, G., Bhayat, A., Cordeiro, L.C.: Llm-generated invariants
    for bounded model checking without loop unrolling. In: Proceedings of the 39th
    IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering. pp.
    1395–1407 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1145/3691620.3695512
47. Polu, S., Sutskever, I.: Generative language modeling for automated theorem proving.
    arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.03393 (2020). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2009.
    03393
48. Qin, J., Du, A., Zhang, D., Lentz, M., Zhuo, D.: Can large language models
    verify system software? a case study using fscq as a benchmark. In: Proceedings
    of the 2025 Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems. pp. 34–41 (2025).
    https://doi.org/10.1145/3713082.3730382
49. Ren, Z., Shao, Z., Song, J., Xin, H., Wang, H., Zhao, W., Zhang, L., Fu, Z., Zhu, Q.,
    Yang, D., et al.: Deepseek-prover-v2: Advancing formal mathematical reasoning via
    reinforcement learning for subgoal decomposition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.21801
    (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.21801
50. seL4: Abstract Spec Invariant Proof of seL4 (2026), https://github.com/seL4/
    l4v/tree/master/proof/invariant-abstract
51. seL4: Access Control Proof of sel4 (2026), https://github.com/seL4/l4v/tree/
    master/proof/access-control
52. seL4: Assembly Refinement Proof of sel4 (2026), https://github.com/seL4/l4v/
    tree/master/proof/asmrefine
53. seL4: CapDL API Proofs of seL4 (2026), https://github.com/seL4/l4v/tree/
    master/proof/capDL-api
54. Shi, H., Xu, Z., Wang, H., Qin, W., Wang, W., Wang, Y., Wang, Z., Ebrahimi, S.,
    Wang, H.: Continual learning of large language models: A comprehensive survey.
    ACM Computing Surveys 58(5), 1–42 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1145/3735633
55. Sutcliffe, G., Suttner, C.: Evaluating general purpose automated theorem proving
    systems. Artificial intelligence 131(1-2), 39–54 (2001). https://doi.org/10.1016/
    S0004-3702(01)00113-8
56. Tithi, S.D., Ramesh, A.K., DiMarco, C., Tian, X., Alam, N., Fazeli, K., Barnes,
    T.: The promise and limits of llms in constructing proofs and hints for logic
    problems in intelligent tutoring systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.04736 (2025).
    https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.04736
57. Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A.N.,
    Kaiser, Ł., Polosukhin, I.: Attention is all you need. Advances in neural information
    processing systems 30 (2017)
58. Viswanathan, A.: Automating interactive theorem provers and certifying automated
    theorem provers. Ph.D. thesis, The University of Iowa (2024)
59. Wang, H., Xin, H., Zheng, C., Liu, Z., Cao, Q., Huang, Y., Xiong, J., Shi,
    H., Xie, E., Yin, J., et al.: Lego-prover: Neural theorem proving with grow-
    ing libraries. In: 12th International Conference on Learning Representations
    (ICLR 2024). International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR (2024).
    https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.00656
60. Wang, J., Zhan, N.J., Feng, X.Y., Liu, Z.M.: Overview of formal methods. Ruan
    Jian Xue Bao / Journal of Software 30(1), 33–61 (2019). https://doi.org/10.
    13328/j.cnki.jos.005652, https://www.jos.org.cn/html/2019/1/5652.htm, in
    Chinese with English abstract
61. Wei, J., Wang, X., Schuurmans, D., Bosma, M., Xia, F., Chi, E., Le, Q.V., Zhou,
    D., et al.: Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models.
    Advances in neural information processing systems 35, 24824–24837 (2022)
                   LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification           23

62. Weng, K., Du, L., Li, S., Lu, W., Sun, H., Liu, H., Zhang, T.: Autoformalization in
    the era of large language models: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.23486 (2025).
    https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.23486
63. Wenzel, M.: Isabelle/isar—a generic framework for human-readable proof documents.
    From Insight to Proof—Festschrift in Honour of Andrzej Trybulec 10(23), 277–298
    (2007)
64. Wenzel, M., Berghofer, S.: The isabelle system manual (2014)
65. Wu, G., Cao, W., Yao, Y., Wei, H., Chen, T., Ma, X.: Llm meets bounded model
    checking: Neuro-symbolic loop invariant inference. In: Proceedings of the 39th
    IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering. pp.
    406–417 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1145/3691620.3695014
66. Ye, M., Dunn, D., Buono, D., Ruocco, A., Carvalho, C., Feldman-fitzthum, T.,
    Franke, H., Bottomley, J.: Enabling performant and secure eda as a service in
    public clouds using confidential containers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.06040 (2024).
    https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.06040
67. Zhang, L., Lu, S., Duan, N.: Selene: Pioneering automated proof in software
    verification. In: Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
    Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). pp. 1776–1789 (2024). https:
    //doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.07663
68. Zheng, K., Han, J.M., Polu, S.: minif2f: a cross-system benchmark for formal
    olympiad-level mathematics. In: ICLR (2022). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.
    2109.00110
69. Zhou, Y., Zhao, J., Zhang, Y., Wang, B., Wang, S., Chen, L., Wang, J., Chen, H.,
    Jie, A., Zhang, X., et al.: Solving formal math problems by decomposition and
    iterative reflection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.15225 (2025). https://doi.org/10.
    48550/arXiv.2507.15225


Appendix

A     Prompt Templates
A.1    Prompt for Proof Generation
The prompt shown in Fig. 7 is used to generate a complete Isabelle proof script
together with step-aligned rationales.
You are an Isabelle proof expert, and I need you to help me prove the theorems in
,→  the project and explain the reasoning behind each proof step. I will provide
,→  the lemma to be proved and relevant proof context. Based on these details,
,→  you should construct the complete Isabelle proof step by step, and after each
,→  proof step you must write out the reasoning (chain of thought) for that step.
,→  Your final answer should contain the full sequence of proof steps together
,→  with their corresponding chain-of-thought explanations.

                       Fig. 7: Prompt for proof generation.


A.2    Prompt for CoT Construction
The prompt shown in Fig. 8 is used in our proof chain-of-thought construction
stage in Section 3.2 to generate CoT instances.
24     J. Zhang et al.

You are analyzing a single proof step from the seL4 Isabelle verification project.
,→  Please combine the following information and explain the reasoning behind
,→  this proof step and its role in the larger proof.
TASK:
1. Read the following `proof_step`(the content of the proof step),
,→  `proof_state_before_applying_step`, `proof_state_after_applying_step`, and
,→  `source_lemma`(which lemma this proof step comes from).
2. Explain the reasoning of THIS SINGLE proof step.
HARD CONSTRAINTS:
- Do NOT simply restate or paraphrase the input text; focus on the reasoning,
,→  methods used, and how the proof state changes.
- Write ONE single concise paragraph in a technical, third-person style. Do NOT
,→  use phrases like "I think", "I am trying", or "let me explain".

                         Fig. 8: Prompt for CoT construction.


B     Examples
This section presents representative artifacts generated in this study, together
with supporting analyses.

B.1   Example CoT Instance
Figure 9 shows a complete CoT instance for a single proof step, produced by our
proof CoT data construction procedure in Section 3.2.
(* * Source lemma * *)
lemma power_2_mult_step_le:
  "Jn' ≤ n; 2 ^ n' * k' < 2 ^ n * kK =⇒ 2 ^ n' * (k' + 1) ≤ 2 ^ n * (k::nat)"
(* * Proof state before applying this step * *)
proof (prove)
goal (1 subgoal):
 1. Jn' ≤ n; 2 ^ n' * k' < 2 ^ n * kK =⇒ 2 ^ n' * (k' + 1) ≤ 2 ^ n * k
(* * Proof step * *)
apply (cases "n' = n", simp)
(* * Proof state after applying this step * *)
proof (prove)
goal (2 subgoals):
 1. Jk' < k; n' = nK =⇒ 2 ^ n + 2 ^ n * k' ≤ 2 ^ n * k
 2. Jn' ≤ n; 2 ^ n' * k' < 2 ^ n * k; n' ̸= nK =⇒ 2 ^ n' * (k' + 1) ≤ 2 ^ n * k
(* * CoT Rationale * *)
(* The proof step applies the `cases` tactic to split the goal into two cases based
,→   on whether `n'` equals `n`. The first case assumes `n' = n`, simplifying the
,→   inequality directly. The second case assumes `n' < n`, leading to a new
,→   subgoal that must be proven separately. This approach allows the proof to
,→   handle both scenarios where `n'` is equal to or less than `n`, ensuring
,→   comprehensive coverage of the original goal. *)


                 Fig. 9: A CoT instance for a single proof step.


B.2   Example: Step-Aligned Rationales for a Successful and a Failed
      Proof
Beyond proof correctness, this appendix provides a qualitative case study of
how step-aligned rationales can support human verification. We compare a
                   LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification         25

successful proof and a failed proof attempt generated by AutoReal-Prover for
the same lemma sameFor_reads_equiv_f_g in Noninterference.thy. In both
cases, each Isabelle command is paired with a step-level rationale that explains
which definitions or lemmas are being exploited, how the proof state is expected
to evolve, and why the tactic choice is locally appropriate. Figures 10 and 11
present the two scripts together with their rationales.
    In the successful case (Fig. 10), the rationales remain aligned with the proof’s
progression. They begin by describing a controlled normalization step that unfolds
the key definitions reads_equiv_f_g_def, sameFor_def, and reads_equiv_def2,
and they emphasize the role of if_cong in simplifying conditional structure with-
out triggering premature branching. They then motivate a cleanup step using
clarsimp, while explicitly disabling if_split to avoid case explosion after un-
folding. Finally, they justify the closing automation with fastforce and point
to the supporting facts silc_dom_equiv_def and pasSubject_not_SilcLabel
that discharge the remaining obligations. Overall, the successful rationales form
a clear flow from normalization, to simplification, to automated closure.
    In contrast, the failed attempt (Fig. 11) exhibits structural mismatches that
become visible from the rationales. It starts with an aggressive clarsimp that
unfolds multiple definitions and domain facts at once, which can leave a more
complex conditional and quantified goal structure for later steps. The subsequent
arg_cong step is framed as a transformation through internal_state_if, yet its
rationale does not establish a clear connection to the remaining obligations about
membership in same_for and the partition induced by label_of (pasSubject
aag). The final auto step is justified only at a high level, and the script terminates
with done while subgoals remain. Taken together, the rationales suggest that
the failure arises from an early divergence followed by insufficiently targeted
follow-up steps, rather than from a single missing lemma at the end.

Implications for inspection and repair. Comparing the two cases helps a verifier
localize where the failed attempt departs from a viable strategy, namely the
initial aggressive simplification and the subsequent unmotivated detour. The
contrast also suggests concrete repairs: reintroduce congruence-guided normal-
ization by including cong: if_cong, control conditional splitting with split
del: if_split, and ensure that the final automation is supported by the same
domain and label facts that enable closure in the successful script. Together,
this example illustrates that correct and incorrect rationales can exhibit distinct
structural patterns, and that these patterns help verifiers identify deviations in
failed attempts and guide subsequent repair.
26      J. Zhang et al.

             Successful Whole Proof with Step-Level Rationales

lemma sameFor_reads_equiv_f_g:
  "J reads_equiv_f_g aag s s'; silc_inv aag st' st'';
     pasSubject aag ∈ pasDomainAbs aag (cur_domain s) ∪ pasDomainAbs aag (cur_domain s') K
   =⇒ (((uc,s),mode),((uc,s'),mode)) ∈ same_for aag (Partition (label_of (pasSubject
   ,→ aag)))"
  apply (simp add: reads_equiv_f_g_def sameFor_def sameFor_subject_def reads_equiv_def2 cong:
  ,→ if_cong)
  (* The proof step applies simplification rules ( `simp` ) to the goal using definitions and
  ,→ congruence lemmas related to `reads_equiv_f_g`, `sameFor`, `sameFor_subject`, and
  ,→ `reads_equiv` ( in particular `reads_equiv_def2` ) , together with the congruence rule
  ,→ `if_cong`. Intuitively, the statement connects a read-equivalence assumption
  ,→ ( `reads_equiv_f_g` ) with a membership claim in `same_for` over a partition determined
  ,→ by the subject’s label. Unfolding `reads_equiv_f_g_def` and the `sameFor_ * ` definitions
  ,→ exposes the underlying logical structure of “same-for” in terms of observations that
  ,→ matter to the subject/partition. Using `cong: if_cong` is crucial because these
  ,→ definitions typically contain conditional branches ( e.g., depending on whether an
  ,→ object is in the subject’s domain/label or on mode/domain conditions ) . The congruence
  ,→ allows `simp` to simplify both sides of `if` expressions in a goal-directed way without
  ,→ losing equivalence. Overall, this step normalizes the goal by expanding the relevant
  ,→ notions and rewriting them into a simpler, more explicit form, reducing the problem to a
  ,→ smaller set of concrete logical obligations about the two states `s` and `s'` under the
  ,→ given domain assumption. *)
  apply (clarsimp split del: if_split)
  (* The proof step applies `clarsimp` to aggressively simplify and clean up the proof state:
  ,→ it combines classical reasoning ( `clarify` ) with rewriting/simplification and will also
  ,→ introduce the most useful quantified assumptions and split conjunctions. The modifier
  ,→ `split del: if_split` explicitly disables the default splitting of `if` expressions.
  ,→ This is a deliberate choice: after the previous unfolding, there can be many nested
  ,→ `if`s, and blindly splitting them can explode the number of cases. By preventing
  ,→ `if_split`, `clarsimp` focuses on simplifying the goal using the available assumptions
  ,→ instead of branching prematurely. As a result, this step typically turns the expanded
  ,→ “same-for / reads-equivalence” obligations into a small number of clean subgoals ( often
  ,→ universally quantified or implication-shaped ) , where irrelevant syntactic noise is
  ,→ removed and the remaining conditions are expressed in a form suitable for automated
  ,→ solvers. *)
  by (fastforce simp: silc_dom_equiv_def pasSubject_not_SilcLabel)+
  (* The final step discharges the remaining subgoals using `fastforce`, an automated tactic
  ,→ that combines rewriting, classical reasoning, and a search procedure to solve goals
  ,→ efficiently. The `simp:` context supplies two key ingredients: - `silc_dom_equiv_def`:
  ,→ expands/simplifies the notion of SILC domain equivalence that follows from the
  ,→ `silc_inv` assumption, making domain-related constraints explicit and usable by
  ,→ automation. -`pasSubject_not_SilcLabel`: provides a domain/label side-condition
  ,→ excluding the subject from the SILC label ( or an analogous “not-in” fact ) , which helps
  ,→ rule out problematic cases in the `same_for`/partition reasoning. With these
  ,→ simplifications available, `fastforce` can close the goals by resolving the remaining
  ,→ logical dependencies between read-equivalence, domain membership, and the partition
  ,→ induced by `label_of ( pasSubject aag ) `. The trailing `+` repeats the method as needed
  ,→ for any remaining subgoals generated earlier, ensuring all goals are solved. *)




        Fig. 10: A successfully verified proof with step-aligned rationales.
                     LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification                27

               Failed Proof Attempt with Step-Level Rationales

lemma sameFor_reads_equiv_f_g:
  "J reads_equiv_f_g aag s s'; silc_inv aag st' st'';
     pasSubject aag ∈ pasDomainAbs aag (cur_domain s) ∪ pasDomainAbs aag (cur_domain s') K
   =⇒ (((uc,s),mode),((uc,s'),mode)) ∈ same_for aag (Partition (label_of (pasSubject
   ,→ aag)))"
apply (clarsimp simp: reads_equiv_def2 sameFor_def sameFor_subject_def
                         silc_dom_equiv_def pasSubject_not_SilcLabel)
(* This attempt starts with an aggressive `clarsimp` that expands `reads_equiv_def2` and the
,→ `sameFor_ * ` definitions, while also unfolding domain-related facts via
,→ `silc_dom_equiv_def` and `pasSubject_not_SilcLabel`. Compared with a more controlled
,→ normalization ( e.g., first using `simp ... cong: if_cong` and postponing splits ) , this
,→ single step can over-simplify or expose nested conditionals/quantifiers in a form that is
,→ harder for later automation to finish. In particular, unfolding without guiding congruence
,→ rules may leave conditional branches in a less canonical shape, and the resulting subgoals
,→ may retain subtle dependencies that `auto` does not resolve. *)
apply (drule_tac f="internal_state_if" in arg_cong[where P=id])
(* This step tries to rewrite an equality by applying `arg_cong` to both sides under the
,→ function `internal_state_if`. However, in this proof, the key remaining obligations are
,→ about membership in `same_for` for a specific partition and the relationship induced by
,→ `reads_equiv_f_g`. Lifting the goal through `internal_state_if` is not obviously aligned
,→ with those obligations, so it may transform the goal into a form that does not match the
,→ available lemmas, or it may introduce an unnecessary detour that blocks straightforward
,→ closure. *)
apply (auto intro!: states_equiv_for_sym[OF reads_equiv_f_g] elim!: bexI[rotated]
,→ bexE[rotated] allE simp: fun_upd_idem)[1]
(* The attempt then uses `auto` with selected intro/elim rules and simplifications. While
,→ these rules are broadly useful, they are not sufficiently targeted to discharge the
,→ remaining subgoals produced by the earlier `clarsimp`/`arg_cong` steps. Typically, this
,→ stage still leaves residual obligations about the exact “same-for” observation constraints
,→ for the subject’s partition ( often involving conditionals or domain cases ) . As a result,
,→ Isabelle will report remaining subgoals rather than completing the proof. *)
done
(* The script ends with `done`, but this attempt is marked as failed: the preceding automation
,→ does not fully discharge all subgoals, so Isabelle would not accept the proof at this
,→ point. *)




           Fig. 11: A failing proof attempt with step-aligned rationales.


B.3    Example Comparison Between Generated Proof and Original
       Proof
Figure 12 presents a comparison between an AutoReal-Prover-generated proof
and the original human-written proof for the same theorem. While both scripts
discharge the same goal, they differ in structure and tactic composition. In
addition, the generated script includes step-aligned natural-language rationales
(shown as comments) that describe the intended role of each step.
    In the original proof, the human-written script normalizes the goal early:
clarsimp with has_reply_cap_def expands the predicate and simplifies the
Hoare triple into preservation obligations expressed in terms of the concrete
conditions that characterize reply capabilities. The remaining work is then
handled by wpsimp over thread_set, where the thread_set-specific lemma
thread_set_cte_wp_at_trivial and the WP/VCG infrastructure (including
hoare_vcg_all_lift) provide the key preservation facts needed for automation
to finish.
28      J. Zhang et al.

    In contrast, the generated proof separates these steps more explicitly. It
unfolds has_reply_cap_def first, applies hoare_pre as an explicit precondition-
adjustment step before automation, and then closes the goal with wpsimp by
relying on more general Hoare/WP infrastructure, such as hoare_drop_imps,
cte_wp_at_caps_of_state, and hoare_vcg_all_lift, to discharge the result-
ing side conditions.
    In this example, the two scripts use different step decompositions and tactic
combinations to reach the same verified goal, suggesting a modest but concrete
divergence in proof ideas.
           Original Proof                  AutoReal-Prover-Generated Proof

    Vthread_set_has_no_reply_cap:
lemma                                         Vthread_set_has_no_reply_cap:
                                          lemma
  "( tcb. ∀(getF, v)∈ran tcb_cap_cases.     "( tcb. ∀(getF, v)∈ran tcb_cap_cases. getF
  ,→ getF (f tcb) = getF tcb)               ,→ (f tcb) = getF tcb)
   =⇒ {λs. ¬has_reply_cap tt s}              =⇒ {λs. ¬has_reply_cap tt s} thread_set f t
   ,→ thread_set f t { λ_ s.                 ,→ { λ_ s. ¬has_reply_cap tt s}"
   ,→ ¬has_reply_cap tt s}"                 unfolding has_reply_cap_def
  apply (clarsimp simp add:                 (* The proof step unfolds the definition of
  ,→ has_reply_cap_def)                     ,→ `has_reply_cap` using the provided lemma...
  apply (wpsimp wp: hoare_vcg_all_lift      ,→ *)
  ,→ thread_set_cte_wp_at_trivial |         apply (rule hoare_pre)
  ,→ fast)+                                 (* The proof step applies the `hoare_pre` rule
  done                                      ,→ to the goal, transforming the precondition
                                            ,→ into... *)
                                            apply (wpsimp wp: hoare_drop_imps simp:
                                            ,→ cte_wp_at_caps_of_state
                                            ,→ hoare_vcg_all_lift)+
                                            (* The proof step applies simplification rules
                                            ,→ ( `wpsimp` ) and specific lemmas
                                            ,→ `hoare_drop_imps... *)
                                            done
                                            (* The proof step completes successfully,
                                            ,→ indicating that the goal has been proven...
                                            ,→ *)




       Fig. 12: Comparison Between Generated Proof and Original Proof.


C    Training Configuration

This appendix details the training configurations corresponding to the CoT-based
proof training procedure described in Section 3.3.
    Training is performed in bf16 precision with a maximum sequence length
of 8192. We use a per-device batch size of 1 with gradient accumulation of 32,
resulting in an effective batch size of 32, and train the model for 10 epochs.
Optimization uses a cosine learning-rate schedule with a warmup ratio of 0.03, a
learning rate of 5 × 10−6 , weight decay 0.05, a maximum gradient norm of 0.3,
and the paged AdamW 8-bit optimizer.
                   LLM-Driven Theorem Proving for Real-World Verification          29

D     Evaluation Theorem Sets

D.1    seL4 Proof Categories and Important Theories
The seL4 microkernel verification is a large-scale mechanized proof effort in
Isabelle/HOL. The seL4 verification repository organizes its proof development
into ten logical modules that mirror the repository directory structure. Across
these modules, the seL4 verification connects high-level specifications to lower-
level models and implementations, and it establishes key system properties such
as invariant preservation, access control, CapDL-based initialization reasoning,
and information-flow security.

 1. access-control. This category proves access control properties at the abstract
    level. Building on global invariants, it shows that authority is mediated
    by capabilities and that state changes respect permission constraints. An
    important entry theory is Syscall_AC.thy, which develops syscall-level
    reasoning used to establish preservation of access control invariants.
 2. asmrefine. This category supports the binary-oriented part of the verification
    chain by relating C-level execution to a graph-level representation used in
    subsequent low-level reasoning. It establishes refinement-style correspondence
    between the C semantics and the exported control-flow graph semantics.
    An important entry theory is SEL4GraphRefine.thy, which contains key
    refinement statements for this correspondence.
 3. bisim. This category develops bisimulation-style reasoning to justify strong
    separation/isolation properties for restricted, static configurations. The results
    support a separation-kernel interpretation where permitted interactions are
    tightly controlled by policy and kernel mechanisms. An important entry
    theory is Separation.thy, which formalizes core definitions and theorems
    used in this isolation argument.
 4. capDL-api. This category connects kernel API behavior to CapDL-level
    initialization reasoning and supports system bring-up proofs with modular
    heap-style arguments. It provides lemmas that track how kernel operations
    affect abstract heap structures and initialization-relevant state. An important
    entry theory is KHeap_DP.thy, which develops preservation lemmas for heap-
    related invariants used in this setting.
 5. crefine. This category proves that the C implementation refines the exe-
    cutable design-level model. Together with the higher-level refinement links,
    it establishes that the kernel’s C behavior is consistent with the intended
    specification. An important entry theory is Refine_C.thy, which contains
    the central refinement results connecting the design model to the C kernel.
 6. drefine. This category establishes design-level refinement results that relate
    the abstract specification to intermediate, executable models used in the
    verification stack. These links provide the bridge that enables properties
    proved at higher levels to be transferred to more concrete models. An impor-
    tant entry theory is Refine_D.thy, which develops the main correspondence
    results for this layer.
30      J. Zhang et al.

 7. infoflow. This category establishes information-flow security results at the
    abstract level and transfers them through refinement to more concrete
    levels where applicable. The proofs capture noninterference-style confiden-
    tiality guarantees under an explicit policy. An important entry theory is
    Noninterference.thy, which develops the core information-flow security
    theorems.
 8. invariant-abstract. This category proves global invariants of the abstract
    specification using monadic Hoare logic. The results show that kernel entry
    points preserve key invariants across system calls and fault handling. An
    important entry theory is Syscall_AI.thy, which contains central invariant-
    preservation lemmas used throughout this category.
 9. refine. This category establishes refinement between the abstract specifica-
    tion and the executable design-level model while maintaining design-level
    invariants needed for later stages. It provides the main refinement infras-
    tructure that underpins transfer of correctness properties down the stack.
    An important entry theory is Refine.thy, which contains core refinement
    theorems for this layer.
10. sep-capDL. This category builds a separation-logic style framework for the
    CapDL specification, enabling modular reasoning about disjoint resources and
    their composition. The development supports initialization and configuration
    proofs by structuring state into separable components. An important entry
    theory is AbstractSeparation_SD.thy, which instantiates the underlying
    separation-algebraic reasoning principles used in this category.

D.2    AFP Projects
The Archive of Formal Proofs (AFP) is a community-maintained repository
of Isabelle/HOL developments across mathematics and computer science. To
evaluate AutoReal beyond operating-system verification, we select three AFP
developments that stress different proof characteristics, including standard-driven
cryptographic reasoning and algebra-heavy mathematical formalization.
 1. RSAPSS. This project formalizes the RSA-PSS signature scheme in Is-
    abelle/HOL and develops the associated correctness and security-oriented
    reasoning in the style of standard cryptographic constructions. It provides
    a representative target for proofs that combine specification structure with
    probabilistic or reduction-style arguments.
 2. Elliptic_Curves_Group_Law. This project formalizes the group law for
    Weierstrass elliptic curves and extends the reasoning to efficient coordinate
    representations over prime fields. It is dominated by algebraic structure,
    non-trivial case distinctions, and layered abstractions typical of mechanized
    mathematics in cryptography.
 3. CRYSTALS-Kyber_Security. This project formalizes security reasoning
    for CRYSTALSKyber within the CryptHOL-based probabilistic framework,
    including probabilistic correctness and standard indistinguishability-style se-
    curity notions. It represents modern post-quantum cryptographic verification,
    where randomized algorithms and game-based arguments play a central role.
