          Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis
             for Rust Programs via Semantic
           Chunking and Hierarchical Context
                       Expansion

    Yuchen Zhang1 , Cheng Wen1(B) , Zhiwu Xu2 , Dugang Liu2 , Jialun Cao3 ,
               Yuwei Liu4 , Shengchao Qin1 , and Cong Tian1
     1
        Guangzhou Institute of Technology, Xidian University, Guangzhou, China
                               wencheng@xidian.edu.cn
    2
      College of Computer Science and Software Engineering, Shenzhen University,
                                   Shenzhen, China
                           {xuzhiwu,liudugang}@szu.edu.cn
      3
         The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Sai Kung, China
         4
           Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China

         Abstract. Formal veriﬁcation of Rust programs using Verus provides
         rigorous correctness guarantees but demands signiﬁcant manual eﬀort to
         craft auxiliary speciﬁcations and proofs. While Large Language Model
         (LLM) agents such as AutoVerus show promise for automating this pro-
         cess, they often fail on non-trivial tasks because generation is under-
         grounded: the model lacks access to ﬁne-grained, veriﬁcation-relevant
         proof patterns. Naı̈ve retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is also inef-
         fective, since retrieving coarse-grained entire ﬁles or functions introduces
         noise and obscures the ﬁne-grained logical patterns required for veriﬁca-
         tion. To bridge this gap, we present VerusSeek, a retrieval-augmented
         framework for automated Verus proof synthesis that addresses this gran-
         ularity mismatch. VerusSeek semantically chunks veriﬁed Verus code
         into proof constructs (e.g., contracts, loop invariants, lemmas, proof
         blocks, and assertions), performs type-aware retrieval, and applies hier-
         archical context expansion to provide concise yet logically grounded evi-
         dence to the model. We evaluate VerusSeek on 150 VerusBench tasks,
         showing that our ﬁne-grained approach substantially improves veriﬁ-
         cation success and signiﬁcantly outperforms both AutoVerus and the
         RagVerus, with improvements of 76.7% and 43.4%, respectively.

1    Introduction
Rust has become a dominant systems programming language due to its strong
memory-safety guarantees and its ability to deliver predictable performance [1–
3]. However, in security-critical domains (e.g., aerospace, autonomous driving,
and cryptographic libraries), memory safety alone is insuﬃcient; developers must
additionally establish functional correctness with respect to precise speciﬁca-
tions. Verus [4,5] enables such end-to-end reasoning by allowing programmers to
annotate Rust code with mathematical contracts and proofs that are discharged
 c The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2027
G. De Giacomo et al. (Eds.): TASE 2026, LNCS 16697, pp. 81–100, 2027.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-032-30693-7_6
82     Y. Zhang et al.

by SMT-based veriﬁcation. In return, Verus can provide rigorous guarantees that
the implementation satisﬁes its speciﬁcation.
    Despite these beneﬁts, the practical adoption of Verus remains constrained
by the signiﬁcant proof burden. To verify even modest programs, users typically
must provide auxiliary annotation, such as strengthened pre/post-conditions,
loop invariants, supporting lemmas, and localized proof blocks. These annota-
tions are often not obvious from the code alone, must be inductive, and must
align closely with the SMT solver’s expectations [6,7]. As a result, proof engi-
neering becomes a major bottleneck, where veriﬁcation eﬀort is dominated not
by writing code, but by iteratively discovering and reﬁning proof-relevant struc-
ture.
LLM-Based Proof Synthesis and the Context Gap. Recent advances
in Large Language Models (LLMs) [8,9] have shown promise in automating
code generation and veriﬁcation tasks [10–17]. Agent-based frameworks, such
as AutoVerus [18], leverage LLMs to iteratively generate and reﬁne proofs for
Rust programs. While promising, they often fail on non-trivial tasks involving
complex loops, quantiﬁed properties, and data structures [19–21]. A central rea-
son is that generation is under-grounded, where the model lacks access to the
ﬁne-grained, domain-speciﬁc proof patterns that are routinely reused by expert
veriﬁers. Consequently, the agent frequently proposes proof annotations that are
syntactically correct but fail to discharge the actual proof obligations.
Why naı̈ve RAG is Insuﬃcient. Retrieval-Augmented Generation
(RAG) [22,23] is a natural strategy to ground LLMs in external evidence. How-
ever, applying standard RAG pipelines to formal veriﬁcation faces a granularity
mismatch. Conventional retrieval units (e.g., entire ﬁles, modules, or functions)
are too coarse: they mix speciﬁcations, invariants, and unrelated implementa-
tion details. When injected into prompts, such coarse evidence introduces noise,
obscures the local proof structure needed for a failing obligation (e.g., a speciﬁc
quantiﬁed invariant), and reduces the likelihood that the model reuses the pre-
cise proof idiom required to complete veriﬁcation. In our setting, the relevant
information is rarely “the whole function”; it is more often a reusable construct
such as a loop invariant template, a lemma statement, or a short proof block
that demonstrates a speciﬁc SMT-friendly pattern.
Insight and Proposed Approach. To address these challenges, we propose
VerusSeek, a retrieval-augmented framework for automated Verus proof syn-
thesis that grounds LLM generation in veriﬁed proof patterns at the right gran-
ularity. VerusSeek ﬁrst semantically chunks veriﬁed Verus code into proof-
bearing constructs (e.g., contracts, loop invariants, lemmas, proof blocks, and
assertions), and indexes these constructs for retrieval. Given a program fragment
that fails veriﬁcation, VerusSeek identiﬁes what kind of proof annotation is
missing, retrieves the most relevant constructs of that type, and then expands
each retrieved construct with a small amount of surrounding context (e.g., the
enclosing function contract and nearby companion invariants). This produces
concise yet logically grounded evidence, which is injected into the prompt to
guide the LLM toward veriﬁable speciﬁcations and proofs.
                      Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs        83

    We implement VerusSeek and evaluate it on 150 veriﬁcation tasks
from VerusBench [18] spanning four benchmark suites (i.e., CloverBench [24],
Diﬀy [25], MBPP [26], and Misc). VerusSeek substantially improves overall ver-
iﬁcation success rate compared to AutoVerus [18], RagVerus [27] and the coarse-
grained retrieval baseline. Speciﬁcally, VerusSeek reduces the number of repair
iterations required on tasks involving loops and quantiﬁed speciﬁcations.
    In summary, this paper makes the following contributions.
– Semantic proof-construct chunking. We decompose veriﬁed Verus/Rust
  code into ﬁne-grained proof constructs and index them as retrieval units,
  enabling construct-level grounding instead of ﬁle/function retrieval.
– Hierarchical context expansion. We expand retrieved constructs with a
  bounded amount of surrounding structure to preserve logical dependencies
  while keeping prompts concise.
– Open-source toolchain. We implement VerusSeek as an end-to-end,
  reusable pipeline for chunk extraction, indexing, retrieval, and prompt
  construction for Verus proof synthesis: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.
  18769271.
– Systematic evaluation. On 150 VerusBench tasks, VerusSeek improves
  veriﬁcation success and ﬁrst-shot performance over AutoVerus and the
  RagVerus method by 76.7% and 43.4%, respectively.


2     Motivation
2.1   A Motivating Example
Figure 1 shows a Rust/Verus implementation of rotate right, which returns
new list obtained by rotating an input vector list to the right by n positions.
The speciﬁcation is naturally stated using the sequence view list@: the rotated
result is the concatenation of a suﬃx and a preﬁx of the original sequence. A
helper contract function rotation split (Lines 1–3) deﬁnes the split point
                  .   split   list.len() − (n mod list.len()),
and the postcondition (Lines 8–13) requires
       . new list@ = list@.subrange(split,   len).add(list@.subrange(0, split)).

    The implementation follows the standard two-phase construction: it ﬁrst
appends the suﬃx list[split..len) to new list, then appends the preﬁx
list[0..split). Although the code is straightforward, it is not veriﬁable with-
out proof code (e.g., loop invariants) that explain how new list@ relates to
the processed portion of list@ at each iteration. For the ﬁrst loop, the key
relational invariant (Line 23) states that after processing indices split..index,
the sequence view of new list equals list@.subrange(split, index). For the
second loop, the invariant must connect the already-built suﬃx with the growing
preﬁx (Lines 34–42), yielding an expression of the form
       . new list@ = list@.subrange(split,   len).add(list@.subrange(0, index)).
84     Y. Zhang et al.




            Fig. 1. A Motivating Example from the MBPP benchmark.

    These invariants require the model to (i) recognize the algorithmic schema
(suﬃx then preﬁx), and (ii) adapt the postcondition into an inductive statement
over the loop index. Even in this small example, missing or slightly misaligned
invariants cause the veriﬁer to fail, and repair requires multiple iterations of
strengthening bounds, frames, and relational facts.

2.2   Limitation of LLM-Based Methods and the Coarse RAG
LLM-based agents such as AutoVerus [18] attempt to automate Verus proof
development by generating candidate invariants and proof snippets and checking
them with the veriﬁer in a generate–verify–repair loop. However, their perfor-
mance is limited by a context gap: successful invariants and proof blocks follow
domain-speciﬁc patterns that are not reliably produced from a small, ﬁxed set
of few-shot examples. As a result, the agent often generates invariants that are
syntactically plausible but too weak to imply the postcondition, or that omit
essential structural components such as index bounds and frame conditions. Our
empirical observations indicate that functions like rotate right remain unver-
iﬁable when using baseline AutoVerus after three iterations, whereas grounding
the model in relevant sequence-processing examples via RAG reduces this over-
head to 1 iteration. Figure 2 shows AutoVerus’s output for this example.
                  Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs        85




            Fig. 2. Loop invariants produced by AutoVerus (unveriﬁed).




            Fig. 3. Loop invariants produced by RagVerus (unveriﬁed).

    RAG is a natural way to provide the model with additional guidance from
veriﬁed code [22,23]. Yet, in formal veriﬁcation, RAG retrieving entire ﬁles or
functions is often ineﬀective. Coarse retrieval mixes the few lines that matter
with large amounts of unrelated implementation detail. This dilutes the relevant
proof signal and makes it harder for the LLM to identify and reuse the speciﬁc
construct required for the current obligation, as shown in RagVerus’s output
in Fig. 3. In this example, the model does not need another whole sequence-
manipulation function; rather, it requires only a small number of construct-level
patterns: an invariant that characterizes a growing subrange, and an invariant
that characterizes the concatenation of a ﬁxed suﬃx with a growing preﬁx.

2.3   Our Proposed Construct-Level Retrieval
The rotation task illustrates a broader phenomenon in Verus: proof obligations
are typically discharged by short, reusable proof constructs, and these constructs
must be instantiated with local variables and indices to become inductive. Naı̈ve
RAG retrieves entire ﬁles or large code blocks, which obscures the speciﬁc proof
constructs required. Therefore, an eﬀective retrieval mechanism for LLM-based
proof synthesis should retrieve and present evidence at the same level of abstrac-
tion as the missing artifact.
    This motivates our approach: We build a retrieval index over semantically
identiﬁed proof constructs and reconstruct only the minimal surrounding con-
text needed for correctness, enabling the LLM to reuse veriﬁed invariant tem-
plates and proof idioms with substantially less noise than ﬁle/function-level
retrieval, as shown in Fig. 4. VerusSeek addresses this by decomposing ver-
iﬁed code into functional units: Function, Lemma, Contract, LoopInvariant,
ProofBlock, and Assertion. Using type-aware retrieval, the system identiﬁes
when a task requires sequence-based invariants and fetches the most pertinent
LoopInvariant chunks. These are then expanded with their parent Contract to
provide a complete logical template. This multi-granularity approach ensures the
LLM receives the precise context needed to synthesize correct inductive proofs
for complex functions.
86     Y. Zhang et al.




                 Fig. 4. Construct-Level Retrieval of VerusSeek.


3    Methodology
We present VerusSeek, a retrieval-augmented framework for automated Verus
proof synthesis. Figure 5 presents an overview of the pipeline, which con-
sists of four stages: (1) semantic proof-construct chunking to construct ﬁne-
grained retrieval units, (2) type-aware retrieval to select proof-relevant chunks,
(3) expands retrieved constructs with a small amount of hierarchical context
to recover necessary dependencies; and (4) optionally synthesizes structure-
ﬁrst loop invariant candidates (bounds/frame/termination) that complement
retrieval.
    The retrieved evidence and synthesized hints are formatted into a single
prompt for the LLM, and the veriﬁer feedback drives an iterative generate–
verify–repair loop.

3.1 Semantic Proof-Construct Chunking
When manually developing proofs in Verus, practitioners often consult previously
veriﬁed code and reuse recurring proof patterns to construct speciﬁcations and
loop invariants. But coarse retrieval units (ﬁles/functions) often bury the few
lines that determine veriﬁcation success. VerusSeek therefore indexes proof-
bearing constructs as retrieval units. Concretely, we parse a veriﬁed Verus ﬁle and
extract typed chunks aligned with the constructs that developers typically reuse:
Funtion, Specification, Lemma, LoopInvariant, ProofBlock, and Assertion,
where the corresponding types are shown in Table 1. Each chunk stores its source
span and lightweight metadata (e.g., ﬁle, enclosing function, veriﬁcation status).
    During chunking, we build a Chunk Hierarchy Graph .H = (C, R) to explicitly
capture structural relationships among chunks. The node set .C contains seman-
tic units (e.g., Function, Specification, Lemma, LoopInvariant ...), and the
directed edge set .R ⊆ C × C encodes hierarchical and lateral relations that are
later used for context expansion. Each chunk is further annotated with metadata
including its type, source span, and formal attributes. In particular, we record:
– Parent–child links: edges from enclosing constructs (e.g., a Function) to
  enclosed constructs (e.g., a LoopInvariant within that function).
                  Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs          87




                   Fig. 5. The overall workﬂow of our approach.


– Sibling links: edges between chunks at the same hierarchy level and of the
  same kind (e.g., multiple LoopInvariant chunks in one function), providing
  alternative patterns.
– Context references: lightweight preceding context and following context snip-
  pets that preserve local continuity with neighboring code.

     Algorithm 1 gives the full extraction routine. It takes as input a Verus source
ﬁle .F and a chunking strategy .str, and outputs a Chunked Document that stores
(i) a set of typed semantic chunks and (ii) their hierarchical relations.


                    Table 1. Chunk types used in VerusSeek

Chunk Type     Description                     Example
Function      A complete Verus function body fn sum(arr: Vec.<u64.>)− > u64
              (including signature and body).
Lemma         A proof lemma or auxiliary        proof fn lemma add assoc(...)
              proof function.
Contract      Contract clauses attached to a requires, ensures, decreases
              function/lemma.
LoopInvariant Invariant block associated with a while (...) invariant ... {...}
              while loop.
ProofBlock    A proof region containing         proof { assert(...); }
              intermediate reasoning steps.
Assertion     A single assertion or check       assert(i .>= 0)
              statement.
88        Y. Zhang et al.


 Algorithm 1: Semantic Proof-construct Chunking for Veriﬁed Code
      Input : A Verus source file F , and a chunking strategy str.
      Output: A ChunkedDocument containing semantic chunks with hierarchical relationships.
 1    begin
 2        C ← ∅;
 3        // Phase 1: Extract imports and type definitions.
 4        C := C∪ extract imports(F );
 5        C := C∪ extract struct enum(F );
 6        // Phase 2: Function-based decomposition.
 7        for each function f in F do
 8            cf := create chunk(FUNCTION, f );
 9            C := C ∪ {cf };
10            specs := extract specs(f );
11            for each clause s in specs do
12                 cs := create chunk(CONTRACT, s, parent=cf .id);
13                 C := C ∪ {cs };
14            // Phase 3: Semantic sub-chunking within functions.
15            for each loop l in f do
16                 cl := create chunk(LOOP INVARIANT, l, parent=cf .id);
17                 C := C ∪ {cl };
18            for each proof block p in f do
19                 cp := create chunk(PROOF BLOCK, p, parent=cf .id);
20                 C := C ∪ {cp };
21            for each assertion a in f do
22                 ca := create chunk(ASSERTION, a, parent=cf .id);
23                 C := C ∪ {ca };
24            // Phase 4: Link chunks in hierarchy and add context.
25            link parent child(cf , C);
26            link siblings(cf , C);
27        // Add preceding and following context for each chunk.
28        for each chunk c in C do
29            c.preceding context := get context(F, c, −200, 0);
30            c.following context := get context(F, c, 0, 200);
31        H := build hierarchy(C);
32        return ChunkedDocument(F, C, H);




3.2     Type-Aware Retrieval

The second stage of VerusSeek retrieves proof-relevant chunks from the knowl-
edge base conditioned on the query type of the input. Here, the query type
characterizes the proof subtask required by the veriﬁer, such as loop-invariant
synthesis, contract (pre/post-condition) completion, or construction of a proof
block. Because diﬀerent subtasks demand diﬀerent evidence, VerusSeek per-
forms type-aware retrieval to match the granularity of retrieved context to the
target construct. For example, loop-invariant queries beneﬁt most from retrieving
existing LoopInvariant chunks as reusable templates, whereas contract-related
queries typically require broader function-level context (e.g., Contract chunks
associated with similar functions).
Query Type Detection. Given an input program, we infer its query type by
matching Verus-speciﬁc patterns and proof constructs (e.g., presence of while
loops, missing invariant blocks, incomplete require/ensures clauses, or proof
annotations). Table 2 summarizes the mapping from detected patterns to query
types, which then determines the preferred chunk types and retrieval granularity
for the subsequent similarity search.
                        Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs          89

Embedding Index and Scoring. Once the query type .t is determined,
VerusSeek computes an embedding for the input snippet .q and performs a
similarity search over the JSON-based index that stores precomputed embed-
dings for all chunks. Concretely, for each chunk .c with embedding vector .ec and
query embedding .eq , we compute cosine similarity .sim(c, q) and retrieve an ini-
tial candidate set of top-.k chunks. We then apply a type-aware scoring function
to promote chunks whose types match the preferred set for .t, and to slightly
favor chunks originating from veriﬁed code:

     .   score(c, q) = sim(c, q) + α · [type(c) ∈ preferred(t)] + β · [veriﬁed(c)] ,   (1)

 where . [·] is the indicator function. We set .α = β = 0.1 in this paper unless
otherwise stated.
Re-ranking. To break ties and favor locally relevant evidence, we incorporate
two lightweight lexical signals: token overlap between the chunk content and the
query, and whether the parent context contains query-relevant terms:

 .rerank(c, q) = score(c, q) + γ · overlap(content(c), q) + δ · parent match(c, q),
                                                                                 (2)
 where .overlap(·) counts matched keywords/tokens (capped to avoid dominating
the score), and .parent match(·) indicates whether the enclosing parent chunk
contains query-relevant terms. We use .γ = 0.05 (with a maximum bonus of .5)
and .δ = 0.02 by default.
    Finally, the top-ranked chunks are formatted into structured in-context
evidence (e.g., contract snippets, invariant templates, and proof idioms) and
injected into the LLM prompt for proof synthesis.

3.3         Hierarchical Context Expansion
The third stage of VerusSeek expands each retrieved chunk with a small
amount of hierarchical context to restore the proof-relevant structure that is
often omitted by isolated retrieval. While a single chunk (e.g., a loop-invariant
template) may match the query semantically, correct proof synthesis frequently
depends on surrounding contracts, auxiliary assertions, and companion invari-
ants that appear in the same enclosing function. To capture such dependencies
without re-introducing the noise of ﬁle-level retrieval, we leverage the Chunk
Hierarchy Graph .H = (C, R) and selectively attach parent/child/sibling con-
text.
Context Types. For a retrieved chunk .c, we consider the context types:
– Parent chunks (.Par(c)): enclosing constructs that contain .c (e.g., the Function
  chunk containing a Loop Invariant chunk, or the enclosing Function for a
  Speciﬁcation clause), which provide high-level intent and contracts.
– Child chunks (.Chi(c)): proof-bearing sub-constructs inside .c (e.g., Assertion
  chunks inside a ProofBlock, or Loop Invariant/ProofBlock chunks inside a
  Function), which supply ﬁne-grained proof idioms.
90      Y. Zhang et al.

              Table 2. Query type detection and preferred chunk types

      Query Type Detection Patterns                     Preferred Chunk Types
      loop         while, for, loop             Loop Invariant, Function
      speciﬁcation requires, ensures, invariant Contract, LoopInvariant
      function     fn, proof fn, spec fn        Function, Lemma
      array        Vec, [], .len(), .push()     Function, Contract
      assertion    assert()                     Assertion, ProofBlock
      general      Default                      All types



– Sibling chunks (.Sib(c)): chunks that share the same parent as .c and have the
  same (or closely related) type, which provide alternative patterns (e.g., other
  Loop Invariant chunks in the same function, or related Speciﬁcation clauses
  such as requires/ensures).

Context Expansion Strategy. Given a query .q with detected type .t and an
initially retrieved chunk .c, VerusSeek selects a bounded expansion set:

                     .   Expand(c, t) ⊆ Par(c) ∪ Chi(c) ∪ Sib(c),                            (3)

 where the selection depends on both the query type and the chunk type. Intu-
itively, we expand towards the context that is most likely to provide missing
proof obligations for the target construct:
                 ⎧
                 ⎪ Par(c) ∪ Sib(c) ∪ Chi(c),   if t = loop ∧ type(c) = Loop Invariant;
                 ⎪
                 ⎪
                 ⎪
                 ⎪
                 ⎨ Par(c) ∪ Sib(c),
                 ⎪                             if t = specif ication ∧ type(c) = Contract;
 .Expand(c, t) =
                 ⎪
                   Chi(c) ∪ Sib(c),            if t = loop ∧ type(c) = F unction;            (4)
                 ⎪
                 ⎪
                 ⎪ Par(c),
                 ⎪                             if type(c) ∈ {Assertion, P roof Block};
                 ⎪
                 ⎩
                   ∅,                          otherwise.


    We further enforce a small context budget (e.g., maximum number of
expanded chunks per retrieved item) to keep the prompt concise. Overall, this
strategy preserves proof-relevant dependencies (contracts, companion invariants,
and auxiliary assertions) while avoiding the excessive noise of retrieving large,
unrelated code regions.


3.4   Loop Invariant Synthesis

Retrieval can fail when the corpus lacks a close match for a loop pattern,
and LLMs commonly omit structural invariants (bounds/frame/termination)
even when they capture the high-level intent. To reduce this failure mode,
VerusSeek includes a lightweight loop invariant synthesizer that proposes a
small “skeleton” of invariants before calling the LLM. Given a loop, it derives:
(i) Bounds from guards and access sites (e.g., .0 ≤ i ≤ N ), (ii) Frames for
                     Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs                  91

quantities not modiﬁed (e.g., preservation of list.len() and input views), and
(iii) a Termination measure consistent with the progress variable (denoted by
decrease). These structure-ﬁrst candidates are provided as hints; the LLM is
instructed to keep them and focus on synthesizing the missing semantic relations
(e.g., subrange/concatenation facts) guided by retrieved examples.
Running Example. Consider the rotate right function in Fig. 1. The struc-
tural invariant candidates produced for its two loops, grouped by category, are
shown in Table 3.

         Table 3. Structural invariant candidates synthesized for rotate right.

Category    Loop               Candidate Invariant/Measure
Bounds      index .< list.len() split index .<= index .<= list.len()
            index .< split index 0 .<= index .<= split index
            index .< split index 0 .<= split index .<= list.len()
            index .< list.len() list.len() .> 0
Frame       index .< list.len() forall |k:int| 0 .<= k .< list.len() .==> list@[k] == list@[k]
            index .< split index forall |k:int| 0 .<= k .< list.len() .==> list@[k] == list@[k]
            index .< split index list.len() .> 0
Termination index .< list.len() decreases(list.len() - index)
            index .< split index decreases(split index - index)




    We use a static analyzer that provides structure-ﬁrst guidance, including
canonical index bounds, conservative frame conditions, and termination mea-
sures. In this example, it proposes bounds that relate index to split index and
list.len(), frame invariants that preserve the input sequence, and loop-speciﬁc
decreasing measures (list.len() - index and split index - index).
    The LLM then combines these structural candidates with semantically rel-
evant proof patterns retrieved from the knowledge base to complete the miss-
ing inductive links required by Verus. Concretely, the retrieved evidence helps
the model synthesize semantic invariants that characterize the incremental con-
struction of new list@ across the two phases of rotation: ﬁrst matching the suf-
ﬁx subrange list@.subrange(split index, index), and then matching the
concatenation of the suﬃx with the growing preﬁx. This complementarity is
crucial because the analyzer alone can reliably infer how the loop progresses
(bounds/termination), but cannot fully recover what sequence relation must
hold to satisfy the rotation speciﬁcation.


3.5      Prompt Construction and Veriﬁcation Loop

In each repair round, VerusSeek constructs a single prompt consisting of: (i)
the failing code snippet and veriﬁer feedback, (ii) expanded construct-level evi-
dence from retrieval, and (iii) (for loops) structure-ﬁrst invariant hints. The
LLM outputs a patch (e.g., new invariants, strengthened contracts, or small
92           Y. Zhang et al.

        Table 4. VerusBench’s Tasks                    Table 5. Per-task characteristics

No. Dataset         Tasks Executable LoC Spec LoC   VerusBench              #Num
1     CloverBench 11      175           80          Total LoC               32
2     Diﬀy          38    951           265         Spec LoC                8
3     MBPP          78    1333          700         Proof LoC               10
4     Misc          23    390           207         Loop invariant proof    8
Total               150   2849          1252        Non-loop-inv. proof     2
                                                    Number of loops         1.6
                                                    Number of helper lemmas 0.07




proof blocks), which is immediately checked by Verus. If veriﬁcation still fails,
the new error message is used to re-classify the query type and re-retrieve evi-
dence for the next round. This preserves the generate–verify–repair workﬂow
of prior agents, while substantially improving grounding by retrieving the right
constructs and reintroducing only the minimal structure needed for veriﬁcation.


4      Evaluation

We implemented a prototype tool VerusSeek and conducted a comprehensive
evaluation to answer the following research questions:

    RQ1. Overall eﬀectiveness. Does VerusSeek improve the success rate of
         Verus proof synthesis compared to the state-of-the-art (SOTA) method?
    RQ2. Ablation Study. Do the components of VerusSeek contribute to the
         ﬁnal eﬀectiveness?
    RQ3. Generalization across LLMs. Do the improvements transfer across
         diﬀerent backbone LLMs?
    RQ4. Qualitative Analysis. What qualitative diﬀerences in generated
         invariants explain successes and failures across methods?


4.1     Experimental Setup

Benchmark. We use all 150 non-trivial veriﬁcation tasks from VerusBench
spanning four suites: CloverBench [24], Diﬀy [25], MBPP [26], and Misc. These
benchmark programs contain Verus-annotated Rust programs with speciﬁcations
that need to be veriﬁed but without proofs. Table 4 and Table 5 summarize the
detailed statistical data of the benchmark.
Compared Baselines. We compare VerusSeek against several baselines: (1)
AutoVerus [18]: an LLM-based agent designed to synthesize proofs for Rust code.
It operates in three sequential phases(generation, reﬁnement, and debugging)
with static few-shot prompting and no retrieval. (2) RagVerus [27]: a retrieval-
augmented LLM baseline for repository-level Verus proof synthesis. It dynami-
cally retrieves project-relevant code/proof context for iterative repair. (3) Basic
                   Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs           93

RAG: augments generation by retrieving whole veriﬁed ﬁles as context. (4) Chun-
ked RAG: enables semantic code chunking and further incorporates query-type
aware retrieval and hierarchical context expansion, but does not apply invari-
ant enhancement; (5) VerusSeek: our proposed full system that additionally
strengthens loop-related proof obligations by injecting enhanced invariants.
Metrics. We evaluate all methods using three primary metrics: (1) verification
success rate: the fraction of tasks veriﬁed by Verus without errors within the
allowed budget; (2) first-shot success rate: the fraction of tasks solved in the ﬁrst
attempt (Step 1), reﬂecting the quality of the initial proof synthesis; (3) generate
iteration: the number of generated ﬁles executed before veriﬁcation succeeds. By
default, we report the total number of correctly veriﬁed tasks obtained after three
consecutive runs of VerusSeek (i.e., Step 1, Step 2, and Step 3).
Conﬁguration of LLMs. We run all settings with two backbones: gpt-4o and
deepseek-v3.2. We use max tokens=4096 and temperature=1.0. Embeddings
use text-embedding-3-small (1536 dimensions).


                     Table 6. Evaluation results on VerusBench

Suite           Step AutoVerus [18] RagVerus [27] Basic RAG Chunked RAG VerusSeek
CloverBench (11) Step 1 7           3            9         7             8
                 Step 2 0           1            0         2             2
                 Step 3 0           0            0         0             0
                 Total 7/11         4/11         9/11      9/11          10/11
Diﬀy (38)       Step 1 1            12           2         27            26
                Step 2 2            1            0         4             5
                Step 3 1            4            3         4             1
                Total 4/38          17/38        5/38      35/38         32/38
Misc (23)       Step 1 11           11           12        11            15
                Step 2 0            0            2         3             1
                Step 3 0            0            1         0             1
                Total 11/23         11/23        15/23     14/23         17/23
MBPP (78)       Step 1 34           34           38        27            55
                Step 2 6            12           10        6             5
                Step 3 7            7            1         4             3
                Total 47/78         53/78        49/78     37/78         63/78
All (150)       Step 1 53           60           61        72            104
                Step 2 8            14           12        15            13
                Step 3 8            11           5         8             5
                Total 69/150        85/150       78/150    95/150        122/150
94        Y. Zhang et al.

4.2     RQ1: Overall Eﬀectiveness

Table 6 reports the veriﬁcation performance of four conﬁgurations under gpt-4o
across four benchmark suites. AutoVerus veriﬁes 69/150 tasks (46.0%). RagVerus
veriﬁes 85/150 tasks (56.7%). Adding ﬁle-level context via Basic RAG improves
over AutoVerus to 78/150 (52.0%), suggesting that retrieved examples help but
are limited by noise from whole-ﬁle retrieval. Replacing coarse retrieval with
construct-level retrieval yields a larger gain: Chunked RAG veriﬁes 95/150 tasks
(63.3%), a +6.6 point improvement over RagVerus, demonstrating that semantic
chunking plus query-type aware retrieval and hierarchical context expansion pro-
vide substantially more relevant proof evidence. Finally, VerusSeek achieves
the best overall performance, verifying 122/150 tasks (81.3%), a +35.3 point
improvement over AutoVerus and +18.0 points over Chunked RAG, showing
that invariant enhancement provides a strong complementary beneﬁt beyond
retrieval alone.
    Beyond total success, VerusSeek improves how quickly proofs are found.
It solves 104/150 tasks in Step 1 (69.3%), compared to 53/150 (35.3%)
for AutoVerus and 72/150 (48.0%) for Chunked RAG. Among solved tasks,
VerusSeek generates 1307 veriﬁcation ﬁles to solve 122 tasks, whereas
AutoVerus generates 1737 ﬁles to solve 69 tasks (10.71 attempts per solved task
vs. 25.17 for AutoVerus), suggesting that the initial proofs are closer to what
Verus needs, and fewer restarts are required.
    Across all metrics, the results show a clear progression: coarse retrieval pro-
vides a small beneﬁt, construct-level retrieval provides a large jump, and invari-
ant enhancement delivers an additional substantial gain. Overall, VerusSeek
yields the strongest end-to-end veriﬁcation performance and the highest ﬁrst-
shot success.


4.3     Ablation Study

We evaluate four progressively stronger conﬁgurations under the same gpt-4o
setting: (1) AutoVerus (no retrieval), (2) Basic RAG (ﬁle-level retrieval), (3)
RagVerus (code-level retrieval), (4) Chunked RAG (semantic chunking + query-
type aware retrieval + hierarchical context expansion), and (5) VerusSeek
(Chunked RAG + loop-invariant synthesis).


                        Table 7. Ablation summary on gpt-4o.

     Method       Retrieval Unit Type-aware & Context Loop Synth. Success (Overall)
     AutoVerus [18] None         No                    No         69/150 (46.0%)
     RagVerus [27] Code/Metadata No                    No         85/150 (56.7%)
     Basic RAG      File         No                    No         78/150 (52.0%)
     Chunked RAG Chunk           Yes                   No         95/150 (63.3%)
     VerusSeek Chunk             Yes                   Yes        122/150 (81.3%)
                   Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs           95




Fig. 6. Distribution of successes across   Fig. 7. Per-suite veriﬁcation success
independent restart rounds under gpt-      rates under gpt-4o.
4o.



    As shown in Table 7, Basic RAG provides a modest gain over AutoVerus
(46.0% .→ 52.0%), conﬁrming that retrieval is useful even with coarse units,
but the improvement is limited by noise from whole-ﬁle context. Upgrading
to Chunked RAG yields the dominant improvement (52.0% .→ 63.3%), slightly
outperforming RagVerus (56.7%), indicating that how context is retrieved and
assembled matters: retrieving proof constructs aligned with the current obliga-
tion (and expanding them with minimal surrounding structure) supplies more
reusable templates than document-level retrieval. Finally, adding loop-invariant
synthesis in VerusSeek produces an additional large jump (63.3% .→ 81.3%),
showing that structural invariant hints (bounds, frame conditions, and termina-
tion measures) are complementary to retrieval and are especially valuable when
the knowledge base lacks a close match.




               Fig. 8. Incremental gains over AutoVerus under gpt-4o.


    Since each step is a fresh restart, the distribution of successes across Step 1–
3 reﬂects how quickly each method ﬁnds a valid proof. Figure 6 shows that
stronger conﬁgurations shift more successes to earlier rounds, indicating bet-
ter “ﬁrst-shot” proof quality. We further visualize the cumulative success rate
(success by Step .k). VerusSeek dominates across all rounds, reaching 81.3%
by Step 3, while AutoVerus saturates at 46.0%, highlighting that retrieval +
96       Y. Zhang et al.

synthesis substantially increases the probability of ﬁnding a correct proof within
a small number of restarts.
    Figure 7 further explains where the improvements arise. On Diﬀy, seman-
tic code chunking combined with type-aware retrieval and hierarchical con-
text expansion provides the largest lift for both models, suggesting that Diﬀy
instances beneﬁt most from retrieving loop- and array-speciﬁc proof constructs
rather than entire ﬁles. On MBPP, adding loop invariant synthesis yields the
largest additional gain for both backbones, consistent with MBPP tasks requir-
ing strong structural obligations (bounds, frame conditions, and termination
measures) in addition to semantic proof patterns.
    Figure 8 attributes the improvement over AutoVerus to three successive
changes: (i) adding Basic RAG, (ii) upgrading to Chunked RAG by incorporat-
ing semantic code chunking together with query-type aware retrieval and hierar-
chical context expansion, and (iii) adding loop invariant synthesis. The largest
gain comes from Chunked RAG, showing that retrieving proof constructs at the
right granularity and reconstructing minimal surrounding context is the primary
driver of veriﬁcation success. Loop invariant synthesis provides an additional,
complementary boost by supplying structural invariants (e.g., Bounds, Frame,
and Termination), especially when retrieval does not yield a close matching
loop pattern.

 Table 8. Overall success rates under diﬀerent LLM backends (150 tasks in total).

      LLM Backend AutoVerus [18]   RagVerus [27]   Basic RAG     Chunked RAG      VerusSeek

      gpt-4o       69/150 (46.0%) 85/150 (56.7%) 78/150 (52.0%) 95/150 (63.3%) 122/150 (81.3%)
      deepseek-v3.2 60/150 (40.0%) 62/150 (41.3%) 59/150 (39.3%) 87/150 (58.0%) 116/150 (77.3%)




4.4    Generalization Across LLMs
We further study whether the eﬃcacy of our retrieval-and-synthesis pipeline
depends on the choice of the backbone LLM. The same experimental conﬁgu-
rations are instantiated using two LLM backends: gpt-4o (default in the above
experiments) and deepseek-v3.2.
    Table 8 shows that the same trend holds under both backends: stronger con-
text construction yields higher veriﬁcation success. With gpt-4o, success increases
monotonically from AutoVerus (69/150) to Basic RAG (78/150), to RagVerus
(85/150), to Chunked RAG (95/150), and reaches the best performance with
VerusSeek (122/150). With deepseek-v3.2, VerusSeek again achieves the
highest success rate (116/150), with Chunked RAG as a strong intermedi-
ate variant (87/150). In contrast, Basic RAG is less reliable under deepseek-
v3.2 (59/150) and does not consistently improve over AutoVerus (60/150)
or RagVerus (62/150), indicating that coarse ﬁle-level retrieval can introduce
enough irrelevant context to oﬀset its beneﬁts for a less noise-robust model.
                  Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs        97

    Overall, these results indicate that our retrieval and synthesis components
largely transfer across LLM backends; the backbone mainly aﬀects the absolute
success ceiling and the tolerance to noisy retrieved context.


4.5   Qualitative Analysis
To understand why veriﬁcation succeeds or fails under diﬀerent proof-generation
settings, we qualitatively analyze representative Diﬀy tasks. Figure 9 and Fig. 10
compare the invariants generated by VerusSeek. Both attempts typically
recover basic structural facts (e.g., bounds and length bookkeeping), but they
diﬀer in whether the invariants capture the sequence-level relation required by
the postcondition.




       Fig. 9. Case 1 (veriﬁed).             Fig. 10. Case 2 (unveriﬁed).




5     Related Work

In this section, we review prior work on LLM-based proof synthesis and position
VerusSeek relative to these approaches.
LLM-BBased Speciﬁcation and Proof Generation. There has been sub-
stantial interest in applying LLMs to reduce the manual eﬀort of formal ver-
iﬁcation by automating the creation of speciﬁcations, invariants, and proofs.
In imperative-language settings (e.g., C and Java), prior work has explored
multi-agent collaboration and decomposition to improve speciﬁcation genera-
tion quality and coverage (e.g., AutoSpec [7], SpecGen [28], SLD-Spec [29],
ACInv [30], NL2ACSL [31], prompt-engineering strategies for invariant discov-
ery and proof completion [32–34], and reinforcement-learning or feedback-driven
ﬁne-tuning to better align generations with veriﬁer requirements (e.g., LIG-
SE [35], ReForm [36], Clause2Inv [37]). These eﬀorts highlight a common theme:
veriﬁcation success is often bottlenecked not by producing syntactically valid
annotations, but by producing inductive and solver-aligned proof artifacts (e.g.,
loop invariants with the right bounds, frames, triggers, and relational content).
LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust. As veriﬁcation attention shifts
toward Rust for security-critical software, recent work has begun to target
98     Y. Zhang et al.

the Rust veriﬁcation ecosystem. AutoVerus [18] establishes a generate–verify–
repair pipeline; AlphaVerus [6] studies self-improving veriﬁed generation via
staged reﬁnement; and VeruSAGE [38] shows gains from multi-agent orches-
tration on larger Rust benchmarks. RagVerus [27] introduces repository-level
retrieval-augmented generation and shows that retrieving relevant project con-
text improves proof completion under practical inference budgets. VeriStruct [39]
shifts focus from isolated functions to data-structure modules, highlighting
the role of structural decomposition in automated veriﬁcation. VeruSyn [40]
addresses data scarcity by synthesizing a large-scale Verus training corpus, show-
ing that scaling seed data can reduce proof-synthesis cost and improve model
capability. Collectively, these works demonstrate that LLM-driven generation,
iterative repair, and agentic search can substantially improve proof Synthesis in
Verus.
    In contrast, VerusSeek leverages LLMs to perform semantic proof-construct
chunking, type-aware retrieval, hierarchical context expansion, and loop invari-
ant synthesis in a uniﬁed pipeline. Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, there
is no comparable existing work that drives Verus proof synthesis by using LLMs
for semantic proof-construct chunking, type-aware retrieval, hierarchical context
expansion, and loop invariant synthesis, which are the key steps of our approach.

6    Conclusion
We have presented VerusSeek, a retrieval-augmented framework for automated
Verus proof synthesis that addresses the granularity mismatch of naı̈ve RAG by
indexing veriﬁcation-relevant proof constructs and reconstructing only the min-
imal surrounding context needed for grounding. Across 150 VerusBench tasks,
VerusSeek substantially improves veriﬁcation success over strong LLM-based
baselines, showing that semantic chunking plus hierarchical context expansion
is an eﬀective recipe for scaling LLM-assisted veriﬁcation in Rust/Verus.

Acknowledgements. This work was supported in part by the National Natural Sci-
ence Foundation of China (Nos. 62472339, 62302375, 62192734), the Basic Research
Foundation of Shenzhen City (No. JCYJ20250604184202003), the China Postdoctoral
Science Foundation funded project (No. 2023M723736), and the Fundamental Research
Funds for the Central Universities.



References
 1. Klabnik, S., Nichols, C.: The Rust programming language, No Starch Press (2023)
 2. Jung, R., Jourdan, J.-H., Krebbers, R., Dreyer, D.: Rustbelt: securing the foun-
    dations of the rust programming language. Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 2(POPL),
    1–34 (2017)
 3. Xu, Z., Wu, B., Wen, C., Zhang, B., Qin, S., He, M.: RPG: rust library fuzzing
    with pool-based fuzz target generation and generic support. In: Proceedings of
    the IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 1–13
    (2024)
                   Enhancing LLM-Based Proof Synthesis for Rust Programs               99

 4. Lattuada, A., et al.: Verus: verifying rust programs using linear ghost types. Proc.
    ACM Program. Lang. 7(OOPSLA1), 286–315 (2023)
 5. Lattuada, A., et al.: Verus: a practical foundation for systems veriﬁcation. In: Pro-
    ceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 30th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles,
    pp. 438–454 (2024)
 6. Aggarwal, P., Parno, B., Welleck, S.: Alphaverus: bootstrapping formally veri-
    ﬁed code generation through self-improving translation and treeﬁnement. arXiv
    preprint arXiv:2412.06176 (2024)
 7. Wen, C., et al.: Enchanting program speciﬁcation synthesis by large language mod-
    els using static analysis and program veriﬁcation. In: International Conference on
    Computer Aided Veriﬁcation, pp. 302–328. Springer, Cham (2024)
 8. Naveed, H., et al.: A comprehensive overview of large language models. ACM Trans.
    Intell. Syst. Technol. 16(5), 1–72 (2025)
 9. Wen, C., et al.: A survey on static code analysis with large language models. In:
    International Conference on Knowledge Science, Engineering and Management.
    Springer, Cham (2026)
10. Cao, J., et al.: From informal to formal–incorporating and evaluating LLMs on
    natural language requirements to veriﬁable formal proofs. In: Proceedings of the
    63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
    Long Papers), pp. 26984–27003 (2025)
11. Ma, Z., et al.: Towards practical requirement analysis and veriﬁcation: a case
    study on software ip components in aerospace embedded systems. arXiv preprint
    arXiv:2404.00795 (2024)
12. Su, J., Deng, L., Wen, C., Qin, S., Tian, C.: CFSTRA: enhancing conﬁgurable
    program analysis through LLM-driven strategy selection based on code features.
    In: International Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Software Engineering, pp.
    374–391. Springer, Cham (2024)
13. Wen, C., et al.: Automatically inspecting thousands of static bug warnings with
    large language model: How far are we? ACM Trans. Knowl. Discov. Data 18(7),
    1–34 (2024)
14. Ma, Z., et al.: Automated LTL speciﬁcation generation from industrial aerospace
    requirements. In: International Symposium on Formal Methods, pp. 1–20. Springer,
    Cham (2026)
15. Jiang, C., et al.: Large language models for multilingual code intelligence: a survey.
    In: International Conference on Knowledge Science, Engineering and Management.
    Springer, Cham (2026)
16. Lin, Y., et al.: How well does knowledge injection enhance LLM-aided formal pro-
    tocol modeling? In: 2026 IEEE International Conference on Software Analysis,
    Evolution and Reengineering (SANER). IEEE (2026)
17. Wang, Y., et al.: Synergizing LLM-driven semantic reasoning with assertion-guided
    analysis for enhanced vulnerability detection. In: 2026 IEEE International Confer-
    ence on Software Analysis, Evolution and Reengineering (SANER). IEEE (2026)
18. Yang, C., et al.: Autoverus: automated proof generation for rust code. Proc. ACM
    Program. Lang. 9(OOPSLA2), 3454–3482 (2025)
19. Zhang, S., Liu, H., Ma, Z., Liang, X., Wen, C.: Formal veriﬁcation of aerospace
    software IP components: a multi-tool case study. In: Proceedings of the 2026 6th
    International Conference on Computer Network Security and Software Engineer-
    ing, pp. 1–9 (2026)
20. Ma, Z., Wen, C., Bin, Yu., Jie, S.: Integrating ensemble learning and large language
    models for eﬃcient formal veriﬁcation of IP-based aerospace systems. Inf. Fusion
    125, 103466 (2026)
100     Y. Zhang et al.

21. Hu, J., et al.: When large language models meet formal theorem proving: a survey.
    In: International Conference on Knowledge Science, Engineering and Management.
    Springer, Cham (2026)
22. Lewis, P., et al.: Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive NLP
    tasks. Adv. Neural. Inf. Process. Syst. 33, 9459–9474 (2020)
23. Gao, Y., et al.: Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models: a survey.
    arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997, 2(1), (2023)
24. Sun, C., Sheng, Y., Padon, O., Barrett, C.: Clover: CLO sed-loop veriﬁable code
    generation. In: International Symposium on AI Veriﬁcation, pp. 134–155. Springer,
    Cham (2024)
25. Chakraborty, S., Gupta, A., Unadkat, D.: Diﬀy: inductive reasoning of array pro-
    grams using diﬀerence invariants. In: International Conference on Computer Aided
    Veriﬁcation, pp. 911–935. Springer, Cham (2021)
26. Misu, M.R.H., Lopes, C.V., Ma, I., Noble, J.: Towards ai-assisted synthesis of
    veriﬁed Dafny methods. Proc. ACM Softw. Eng. 1(FSE), 812–835 (2024)
27. Zhong, S.C., Si, X.: Towards repository-level program veriﬁcation with large lan-
    guage models. In: Proceedings of the 1st ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop
    on Language Models and Programming Languages, pp. 27–39 (2025)
28. Ma, L., Liu, S., Li, Y., Xie, X., Bu, L.: Specgen: automated generation of for-
    mal program speciﬁcations via large language models. In: 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th
    International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pp. 16–28. IEEE (2025)
29. Chen, Z., et al.: Sld-spec: enhancement LLM-assisted speciﬁcation generation for
    complex loop functions via program slicing and logical deletion. arXiv preprint
    arXiv:2509.09917 arXiv preprint (2025)
30. Liu, R., Chen, M., Wu, L-I., Ke, J., Li, G.: Enhancing automated loop invari-
    ant generation for complex programs with large language models. Sci. Comput.
    Program. 103387 (2025)
31. Su, W., Wu, X., Zhao, Y.: NL2ACSL: interactively translating natural language
    to ANSI C speciﬁcation language with large language models. Knowl. Based Syst.
    115177 (2025)
32. Chakraborty, S., et al.: Ranking LLM-generated loop invariants for program ver-
    iﬁcation. In: Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP
    2023, pp. 9164–9175 (2023)
33. Li, J., Li, G., Li, Y., Jin, Z.: Structured chain-of-thought prompting for code gen-
    eration. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 34(2), 1–23 (2025)
34. Beg, A., O’Donoghue, D., Monahan, R.: Evaluating LLM-generated ACSL anno-
    tations for formal veriﬁcation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.13851 (2026)
35. Liu, C., Xiwei, W., Feng, Y., Cao, Q., Yan, J.: Towards general loop invariant
    generation: a benchmark of programs with memory manipulation. Adv. Neural.
    Inf. Process. Syst. 37, 129120–129145 (2024)
36. Yan, C., et al.: Re: form–reducing human priors in scalable formal soft-
    ware veriﬁcation with RL in LLMs: a preliminary study on dafny. arXiv
    preprintarXiv:2507.16331 (2025)
37. Cao, W., et al.: Clause2inv: a generate-combine-check framework for loop invariant
    inference. Proc. ACM Softw. Eng. 2(ISSTA), 1009–1030 (2025)
38. Yang, C., Neamtu, N., Hawblitzel, C., Lorch, J.R., Lu, S.: Verusage: a study of
    agent-based veriﬁcation for rust systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.18436 (2025)
39. Sun, C., et al.: Veristruct: Ai-assisted automated veriﬁcation of data-structure
    modules in verus. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.25015 (2025)
40. Di, N., et al.: Reducing the costs of proof synthesis on rust systems by scaling up
    a seed training set. arXiv preprintarXiv:2602.04910 (2026)
